Company Overview




Allbridge provides in-room technology solutions for properties, helping customers deliver one connected experience to their customers with all property technology solutions from design and procurement to installation and ongoing management. We are the partner hospitality, multifamily, and senior living organizations trust to position them for the future and strengthen the relationship with their customers.




We are rapidly growing and seeking top talent to join our team. If you want to work in a thriving industry and contribute to best of breed solutions, Allbridge may be the company for you. Made up of talented, dedicated, and energetic professionals, Allbridge offers significant career growth opportunities and competitive compensation and benefits.




Job Summary




Working as part of a team and independently as needed, write, test, and debug “clean” and flawless code to produce fully functional software applications to support the design of functional programs and applications. This role will participate in the design and development of creative prototypes and technical documents and handbooks.




Successful employees have a bachelor's degree from a four-year accredited college or university in management information systems, or computer science or other closely related field, and a minimum of three years of technical computer networking in a customer-facing work environment as an applications development role, with demonstrated proficiency in at least one programming language such as PHP, Python, or Javascript.




This is an exempt role and is a member of the product development department reporting directly to the Director of Software Development with a preferred location of remote-field, or Raleigh, NC.




Allbridge is currently operating under a hybrid work model, allowing colleagues the opportunity to connect with others in person and the flexibility to work remotely. For some business groups and positions, job function requirements may require more time at the primary work location, while greater flexibility may be in place for others.




Essential Job Functions And Responsibilities




Working as part of a team and independently as needed, write, test, and debug “clean” and flawless code to deliver fully functional software applications to support the design of functional programs and applications within a given time frame. Includes evaluating existing features to update the application’s functionality.
Participate in the design and development of creative prototypes and technical documents and handbooks.
Perform analysis of client and company standards and requirements to translate into application features
Work independently to conduct and record unit and integration testing before deployment, and functional and non-functional testing.
Work in collaboration with the team to support the execution of professional and effective project management.
Work independently to set expectations that implementations are rolled out with careful due diligence and always focus on quality of work, preventing any potential network failure or re-work actions.
Perform quality control on the project throughout development to maintain the standards expected
Keep abreast of related technological advancements, focusing on proactively anticipating business needs and adding value to the team and project.
Consistently integrates Albridge’s core values into their everyday habits by treating all customers, internal and external, professionally, honestly, and respectfully.
Accept ownership and accountability of position responsibilities and consistently strives to deliver innovative results for internal teams and customers that establish trust, high standards, credibility, and quality performance.
Must remain flexible to travel to support various project needs on a limited basis.
Other miscellaneous duties as assigned.




Required Qualifications




Successful completion of a bachelor's degree from a four-year accredited college or university in management information systems, or computer science or other closely related field; or two years related experience and-or training; or equivalent combination of education and experience.
Demonstrated aptitude, high learning agility, and willingness to learn computer networking in a customer-facing work environment in an application development role.
Demonstrated proficiency in at least one programming language such as PHP, Python, or Javascript.
Must be able to work effectively as a team member in a fast paced, and high-volume work environment, operating with a high level of detail, flexibility, and conscientiousness.
Required to have demonstrated intermediate level PC skills with the ability to effectively operate within a Windows Operating System and Windows based programs such as Microsoft Excel, Word, Outlook, SharePoint, Teams, and Project.
Excellent verbal, written, and presentation communications skills in the English language.
Must be authorized to work in the United States without sponsorship.




Physical Requirements




The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job. Essential functions are those functions that the employee who holds the position or the candidate that desires the position must be able to perform unaided or with the assistance of a reasonable accommodation. When possible, reasonable accommodations may be made for persons who are disabled under the law. Reasonable accommodations are those accommodations which, as defined under applicable law, enable disabled individuals to perform the essential functions of their job title and to meet the employer’s expectations for the job title.




While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit, stand and walk; use hands-fingers to handle or feel and reach with hands and arms. The employee is occasionally required to climb, balance, stoop, kneel, crouch, crawl, talk and hear.




The employee may occasionally lift and-or move up to 30 pounds.




Equal Opportunity Employer Statement




Allbridge is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Allbridge does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, non-disqualifying physical or mental disability, national origin, veteran status or any other basis covered by appropriate law. All employment decisions are decided on the basis of qualifications, merit, and business need.




PI205634684
Mostrar más