Description

Job summary

Jr Software Dev Engineer: Job Description

Are you passionate about innovation and developer experience at scale? Are you interested in working on an amazing team that is building new experiences from the ground up? Amazon is seeking excellent student programmers to work in an internship program located in Detroit.

Our Internship Program

Our Internship Program Is Special In Several Respects

We offer work year-round, 16 hrs-week while in school and full-time during breaks. Working schedules are re-arranged each semester to accommodate class schedules.
We offer excellent mentoring. We require our full-time software developers to be able and willing to mentor exceptionally capable young developers.
We give our interns responsibilities and roles which will prepare them to enter the workforce after graduation with “real world” software programming experience.
We pay competitive market rates to our interns. Students who participate in our program routinely say that the real reason they’re here is for the valuable learning experience, especially because of the uniform excellence of the team they work with, the mentoring offered by experienced developers, and the challenge of being a principal contributor to software products. They say it’s like taking an additional practicum course that complements their university experience.

Our software development is mostly in Java, some JavaScript, HTML, and CSS for Web.

Qualifications

BASIC QUALIFICATIONS

College Student
Graduate date Spring 2023 or later
Ability to work min 16 hours week
Programming Language
Systems knowledge


Preferred Qualifications

Preferred Qualifications:

Solid knowledge of JAVA or equivalent
Advanced programming classes completed at University
Networking knowledge

Amazon is committed to a diverse and inclusive workplace. Amazon is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate on the basis of race, national origin, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, protected veteran status, disability, age, or other legally protected status. For individuals with disabilities who would like to request an accommodation, please visit https:--www.amazon.jobs-en-disability-us.


Company - Amazon.com Services LLC

Job ID: A2096385
Show more