Jr. Software Engineer (Entry Level)

Philadelphia, PA (Hybrid)

Pay Rate - $28.00 - $34.00-hr (Depending on years of experience)

Work Type: Contract to Hire




The ideal Jr. Software Engineer will support the highly collaborative Customer IT team, focusing on building new features and improving experiences for the customer. The main project you will focus on is a customer-facing product that allows customers to stop-start-transfer services seamlessly, working to improve the utility-customer experience. Despite working under the guidance of Senior & Principal Project Manager, the selected Jr. Software Engineer will be able to work autonomously and be eager to learn and grow in an agile, cross-functional environment.




If you are detail-oriented, naturally inquisitive, and eager to work in a fast-paced environment, we encourage you to apply!




Qualifications

Bachelor’s Degree in Information Technology, Computer Information Systems, Engineering or similar field OR equivalent experience.
0-2 years of experience working with software development languages (Ex: Python, Perl, C#, Java, Javascript, NodeJs, .NET, HTML, AngularJS, iOS Swift on-or Objective-C, Android Mobile, Xamarin)
Python, Angular, and .Net are preferred.
Experience with or knowledge of cloud platforms (Azure).
Strong software development capabilities coupled with the ability to work under tight deadlines.
Demonstrated strong teamwork skills with self-motivation to achieve success in a rapidly evolving environment.
Excellent communications skills - Able to effectively communicate highly technical information in non-technical terminology (written and verbal).
Experience with-knowledge of SQL or NoSQL databases - Oracle, SQL Server, Cosmos DB, MySQL, Redis, Splunk.
Understanding of advanced programming concepts, data structure and algorithms.
Possesses excellent analytical, organizational, conceptual, and problem-solving skills.




Responsibilities

Write product specifications and design documentation for customer-facing platform enhancements.
Product specifications will be primarily centered around bug-tweaks and enhancements to our client’s ISUM (I Sign Up and Move) front-end customer-facing platform.
Design, develop and-or review code to ensure solutions meet the requirements of functional and technical specifications.
Solutions may include but are not limited to the development of various types of applications, web, mobile app, full-stack, or integrations hosted on-premises data centers or in the cloud.
Develop automated unit tests and-or automated UI tests.
Enhance knowledge of and compliance with preferred technologies, methodologies, standards, and policies. Maintain technical knowledge and business acumen within your own discipline or function.
Assist in the development of white papers, presentations, or knowledge sharing for new and recommended solutions.
Ideate, design, and develop process and technology improvements such as process test automation.
Independently meet with business groups involved in miscellaneous projects.




Eight Eleven Group provides equal employment opportunities (EEO) to all employees and applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, citizenship, disability, genetic information, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, amnesty or status as a covered veteran in accordance with applicable federal, state, and local laws.

Daha fazla göster