DEVELOPER




DecksDirect is the nation's fastest, most trusted direct distributor of premium deck products! With a focus on E-Commerce and national distribution, we are aggressively growing to help people all over the country to build better decks. At DecksDirect, we aim to be reliable, confident, knowledgeable and provide an extremely positive customer experience.




We are currently looking for a Developer with a collaborative spirit to join our team. This position plays an integral role in supporting the company's system and application integration development efforts, focused primarily on the ERP platform and custom-built Warehouse Management System (WMS) .




The Developer also provides backup support for the eCommerce platform as a member of the Development team.




Responsibilities




Timely, accurate execution of the development process for system feature enhancements, technology integrations and support
Apply strong analytical ability to evaluate areas of opportunity
Collaborate and contribute to the overall development road map
Apply development best practices and standards to all development projects
Proactively troubleshoot, debug and apply corrective actions per development needs




Qualifications




Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science , related certifications or relevant experience
Experience with Linux server environment, application frameworks, third-party APIs, Python (WMS), and Javascript (front-end components)
Experience in Suitescript and Typescript scripting languages preferred
Critical thinking and problem-solving skills
Strong verbal, written, and interpersonal communication skills
Desire and ability to work cross-functionally
3+ years of work experience in a development-focused role;




experience with both back-end and front-end development responsibilities is a plus




Position Details




Full-time
Salaried - Exempt (not eligible for overtime)
Reports to: COO
Location: Plymouth, MN
Internal position: Office position; remote or telecommute option may be considered,




must be available for on-site work-attendance when needed




Benefit Eligible Position: PTO, Health, Dental, Retirement, Life Insurance, Short Term, and Long Term Disability options
Fun Culture, Casual Dress Code, Cool People, and Free Coffee




We Are Looking For Someone Whose Core Values Align With Ours




We believe in culture. We focus on culture. We believe in putting the right person in the right seat.




Do the Right Thing
Service the Customer First
It All Begins with Self
Deliver Excellence Everyday
Maintain an Edge Above the Rest




DecksDirect is an e-commerce retailer and distributor of deck and patio building products. We are committed to Helping People Build Better Decks. We are a company of passionate individuals who love what we do. Come join a dynamic, growing company that works in an awesome and fun environment every day!




See you soon!




Powered by JazzHR
Mostrar más