EnergyBot is a digital marketplace disrupting the billion-dollar energy industry. Focused on building an online platform to enable small businesses to find the best energy plan for their business, EnergyBot is a tech startup that is now building a team of technology, product, sales, and marketing experts.

We are looking for software engineers who are interested in working in a fast moving agile startup.

Ideal candidate would be interested in working as a full-stack engineer with experience in one or more of the following areas:

Front-end frameworks (Vue.js - React - AngularJS)
Back-end (API - Microservices - Batch processing)
DevOps (Terraform - AWS - Azure - Google Cloud)
Databases (MongoDB - Cassandra - Oracle - PostgreSQL - Aurora)
Analytics - Machine Learning


Responsibilities

Develop quality software and web applications
Analyze and maintain existing software applications
Design highly scalable, testable code
Discover and fix programming bugs


Minimum Qualifications

1+ years of relevant software development experience
Proficiency in Java, Kotlin, or JavaScript
Exposure to cloud environments like AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud
Ability to quickly pick up new concepts and technologies fast
Have a learning mindset and be proactive about technical growth
Good understand of design and integration patterns
Understanding of high-availability, fault-tolerant, scalable and distributed systems
Should embrace team first culture
Works in a friction free manner with cross-functional team
Knowledgable about Agile development and TDD
Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science or related discipline


Must be authorized to work in the United States. This position does not offer sponsorship.

No 3rd party agencies - we are not using recruiters for this role.

Work location: Plano, TX (Hybrid)

What’s in it for You?

Competitive salary and bonus compensation
Great benefits
Fun start-up environment
Tons of room for growth


About EnergyBot

Disrupting the energy market and helping small businesses find the best energy plan is a mission that inspires us daily. It gets us up in the morning and keeps us up at night. And just in case we need an extra dose of energy during the day, we like to take a moment and revel in the fact that we are building a new company from the ground up. From a competitive salary to comprehensive health insurance, you’ll find plenty of benefits and perks that reflect our appreciation for all of the thinking and doing that goes on here at EnergyBot.

Website: https:--www.energybot.com
Daha fazla göster