Seeking a full-time mobile applications developer for a remote role. Candidate MUST live within 50 miles of DC, NYC, Chicago, LA, SF, Houston, or Denver.

Responsibilities:

Building Enterprise-level solutions within Arnold & Porter M365 and Azure environments, including form creation, workflow customization, process automation, report development, dashboard creation, and system configuration.
Designing and developing Office 365 applications and solutions (Power Automate (Flow), Power Apps, Power BI, Dynamics 365, SharePoint Online).
Creating and customizing mobile applications using 3rd party mobile application development platforms (e.g. Microsoft Power Platform, Fliplet)
Analyzing the business requirements by collaborating with the stakeholders and IT Management, studying systems flow, data usage, and work processes.
Performing software design using software development fundamentals and processes, debugging, testing, and deploying software solutions.
Designing, developing and maintaining key components of the software suite using Azure and Office 365 APIs.
Implementing custom solutions that leverage various Azure and Office 365 services.
Documenting and demonstrating solutions by developing documentation, flowcharts, layouts, diagrams, etc.
Creating and maintaining application solution documentation.


Requirements
Four-year college degree required, equivalent experience will be considered.
5+ years of experience in the following:
Designing and developing enterprise-wide applications using Office 365-PowerApps and other Mobile Apps development platforms for iOS and Android devices.
Web development, including JavaScript, front-end frameworks (React, Angular), Dynamics 365 APIs, HTML5, CSS and JSON.
Net or equivalent scripting language.
Must have extensive experience building Office 365-connected solutions, including Power Automate (Flow), Power Apps, Power BI, Dynamics 365, SharePoint Online.
Expert knowledge of building web parts, apps, page layouts and content types using the O365 API.
Experience with Visual Studio and Azure DevOps, Git, TFS, or other source control management tools.
Solid understanding of relational database development and SQL experience.
Experience with IDEs and Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code as well as experience with source control tools such as Bitbucket, Azure DevOps, and Github.
Experience with Azure resources such as Azure functions, Azure logic apps, and Azure SQL DB.
Experience with PowerBI, SQL Server Reporting Services, SQL Server Analysis Services, and-or SQL Server Integration Services a plus
Experience in applying software development lifecycle, including analysis, design, configuration, development, and unit testing using Microsoft technologies.
High-level understanding of Active Directory, AD security, TCP-IP, DNS, Load balancers, Firewall, and SMTP.
Voir plus