Employee dedication contributes to our success, customer satisfaction, and our nation's most outstanding achievements. At Fusion Technology, we recognize that our employees are our greatest attribute. That is why our top priority is to attract, recruit, retain, and continuously motivate quality employees who meet or exceed customer requirements. Our dedicated people make Fusion Technology one of the fastest-growing information technology (IT) companies in West Virginia. As a HUBZone Small Business, we know what it means to work as one team. As such, we encompass all definitions of the word "team." So, are you ready to join ours?




Who is Fusion Technology?




Fusion Technology is a performance-driven HUBZone Small Business concern residing in the heart of the beautiful mountainsides of West Virginia, steps away from the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Criminal Justice Information Services Division's Headquarters. Founded in 2007 by an Engineer-by-trade, Fusion Technology dedicates our valuable resources to providing comprehensive IT services and solutions to mission-critical US Government programs and the Intel Community.




Who are you?
Trusted Employee: The Government trusts you and so do we. You must possess an active Top Secret security clearance. You must also be able to obtain Department of Homeland Security (DHS) suitability.
Development Expert: You have 2 + years of direct relevant experience in applications development. You have knowledge of secure software development lifecycle and code versioning and maintenance, as well as interchange and conversion technologies and techniques. You also have experience with assessing and integrating commercial off the self (COTS) products. You have experience across the entire field of software technologies and engineering, including information, documentation, databases, model and architecture repositories, analysis, training, testing, data synthesis, hardware, software, standards, economic consideration of selecting techniques, and processes, and interoperability.
Tech Savvy: You have experience with development in a Linux and Agile environment. You also have experience with one or more of the following tools:
Docker
Python
JSON
JavaScript
GIT
MongoDB
Elastic Search
Data Analytics
Knowledgeable: You have put in the hard work and earned a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Computer Information Systems, Computer Systems Engineering, or a related degree with 2 years of application development experience. If you have a High School diploma, you should have 4-6 years of application development experience.
Field Certified: You are a go-getter and an excellent test taker. You earned and maintain at least one of the following certifications:
Certified Secure Software Lifecycle Professional (CSSLP)
Security+




What we do:




The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is dedicated to responding to cyber incidents and hunting proactively for malicious cyber activity. The DHS centers its resources around securing the nation's infrastructure, and Fusion Technology aims to support this mission by providing advanced technical assistance, proactive hunting, and rapid onsite incident response utilizing host and network-based cybersecurity analysis capabilities.




What you’ll do:




Design, troubleshooting, and implementing middleware that ties state of the art cybersecurity analysis systems and applications together
Conduct software validation and verification, and software engineering anomaly resolution
Evaluate the quality of proposed and existing software systems and solutions that support various cyber software activities and are planned to be integrated into various networks and architectures
Design, develop, enhance, debug, integrate, and implement software
Troubleshoot production problems related to software applications
Research, test, build, and coordinate the conversion and-or integration of new products based on user requirements
Design or implement complex algorithms requiring adherence to strict timing, system resource, or interface constraints; performs quality control on team products
Confer with system engineers and hardware engineers to derive requirements and to obtain information on project limitations and capabilities, performance requirements, and interfaces
Ability to work with the installation, demonstration, test, validation, and evaluation of new and existing software, tools, methods, and software measurement technologies




What matters to you matters to us.




Fusion Technology values its employees and works hard to ensure proper care for them and their families. We desire to compensate employees in a competitive, motivational, fair, and equitable way with other employers in the marketplace. Salary is only one component of employee compensation but an integral part of recruiting and retaining qualified employees. However, at Fusion Technology, we take a comprehensive approach and consider each employee's needs to tailor a compensation plan that provides financial security and peace of mind. Our competitive package includes a best-in-class matching 401K program, comprehensive Cigna healthcare plan, a competitive employer contribution to a health savings account, vision and dental plans, life insurance, short- and long-term disability, and personal leave, in addition to paid certifications and training.




Fusion Technology LLC is an Equal Opportunity Employer. We respect and seek to empower each individual and support the diverse cultures, perspectives, skills, and experiences within our workforce. Qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to sex, race, ethnicity, age, national origin, citizenship, religion, physical or mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, pregnancy, family structure, marital status, ancestry, domestic partner status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, veteran or military status, or any other basis prohibited by law.




Powered by JazzHR




jD30P3QThz
Show more