Company : HM Health Solutions Job Description :




HM Health Solutions Inc. d-b-a enGen, headquartered in Pittsburgh, PA, has a work-at-home Application Developer position (with the ability to telecommute with appropriate telecommuting systems) to be responsible for analyzing, designing, coding, testing, and implementing application enhancements with limited supervision.




Must have a bachelor's degree (or foreign equivalent) in Computer Science, Information Science, Mathematics, Statistics, Economics, Engineering, Operations Research, or related field plus two (2) years of experience in a related position.




Must have two (2) years of experience with each of the following: (i) Pega or Java; (ii) Oracle databases; (iii) JavaScript; and (iv) PL-SQL.




Must have one (1) year of experience with Linux and Unix scripts.




Must have any experience with the software development lifecycle.




Experience can be concurrent.




Apply at https:--careers.highmarkhealth.org, using keyword "J217505".




4233134.v1-020599.0466




Highmark Health and its affiliates prohibit discrimination against qualified individuals based on their status as protected veterans or individuals with disabilities, and prohibit discrimination against all individuals based on their race, color, age, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation-gender identity or any other category protected by applicable federal, state or local law. Highmark Health and its affiliates take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment individuals without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation-gender identity, protected veteran status or disability.




EEO is The Law




Equal Opportunity Employer Minorities-Women-Protected Veterans-Disabled-Sexual Orientation-Gender Identity ( https:--www.eeoc.gov-sites-default-files-migrated_files-employers-poster_screen_reader_optimized.pdf )




We endeavor to make this site accessible to any and all users. If you would like to contact us regarding the accessibility of our website or need assistance completing the application process, please contact number below.




For accommodation requests, please contact HR Services Online at HRServices@highmarkhealth.org




California Consumer Privacy Act Employees, Contractors, and Applicants Notice
Show more