Currently we are only able to accept applicants who reside in the following US States: AZ, CO, FL, GA, IL, MD, MI, NC. NJ, NY, PA, TX, VA, WA, or Vancouver Canada.




Are you an Application Developer who thrives on bringing new applications into action? Are you an effective communicator who enjoys problem-solving while providing top-tier support to your team? If so, we'd love to hear from you.




A Little Bit About This Role....




The Application Developer will be responsible for creating and maintaining applications, solving business problems, and supporting the programs team.




A Few Of The Responsibilities...




Design applications based on specifications aligned with business needs




Proactively research potential programming needed




Create reports and provide updates to the team




Partner with department directors on various special projects, urgent issues, and other tasks as assigned




Education And Experience




Minimum 3 years of related experience as a full-stack developer




Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration, Data Analytics, Computer Science, or related discipline.




Advanced Excel skills




Microsoft Power, Dataverse, and SQL experience is a requirement for this role




Strong project management skills




Strong organizational and problem-solving skills




Clear and professional verbal and written communication skills




How to MANAGE a Small Law Firm is a fast-growing and highly entrepreneurial business management, personal development and coaching company, specializing in solo and small law firms. Inc. Magazine has named How to MANAGE a Small Law Firm to its list of the 5,000 fastest growing privately held companies in the United States every year since 2015. We've also been named by Inc. as one of the "Best Places To Work". We are very much a start-up with a fast-paced growth focused environment. Working with us can prove to be the best job you ever had or the most frustrating depending on your flexibility, team-spirit, commitment to our clients and your realistic expectations about what it's like to work in a fast-paced growing business.




Our culture....




We are a rapidly growing company, and we are seeking an individual who can keep up and can maintain a comfortable presence in our ever-changing environment. If you're intellectually curious, ready to learn, and a team player - this will be the perfect role for you! If you're not a self-starter, need a lot of supervision, or are looking for a 9 - 5 that won't challenge you, we're not it.




HTM provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment and prohibits discrimination and harassment of any type without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, disability status, genetics, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local laws.




Currently we are only able to accept applicants who reside in the following US States: AZ, CO, FL, GA, IL, MD, MI, NC. NJ, NY, PA, TX, VA, WA, or Vancouver Canada.




Inc. Magazine named How to MANAGE a Small Law Firm as one the 5,000 fastest-growing privately held companies in the United States every year since 2015. We've also been named by Inc as one of the "Best Places To Work". How To Manage A Small Law Firm is the largest and fastest-growing provider of outside management services to solo & small law firms in the United States. We currently help to manage more than 400 solo & small law firms in just about every practice area you can imagine with lawyers who come from all walks of life. To learn more about our company and what we do please visit www.HowToMANAGEaSmallLawFirm.com
Voir plus