About Us




INAMAX Powered by Ultra is a family of companies that bring innovative, entertaining experiences to retail.




Ultra is a Class B Master License Holder and a provider of Coin Operated Amusement Machines (COAM) to businesses throughout Georgia. Ultra is an exclusive provider of Titan, a reloadable Player Card System that enhances the player experience and reduces friction for the retailer.




INAMAX is a management consulting firm operating multiple gaming and retail companies across several states. We offer retailers the expertise needed to add or improve current terminal gaming operations, such as COAM, VLT, and VGT. We help our partners successfully manage risk while adding a highly profitable revenue stream and leveraging underutilized space.




Position Summary




We are looking for an enthusiastic Junior Software Developer to join our software design team. The Junior Software Developer will report directly to the engineering manager and assist with all functions of software design, coding and bug fixing. The primary focus will be to learn the codebase, gather user data, and respond to requests from the engineering team. To ensure success as a junior software developer, you should have a good working knowledge of basic programming languages & algorithms, the ability to learn new technology quickly, and the ability to work in a team environment.




Key Responsibilities




Assist the Engineering Manager with all aspects of software design and coding.
Attend and contributing to company development meetings
Learn the codebase and improving your coding skills
Write and maintain code
Work on minor bug fixes
Monitor the technical performance of internal systems
Respond to requests from the development team
Gather information from applications-servers about program functionality
Write reports
Conduct development tests
Work with other members of the R&D team to develop and implement new programs, as well as find improvements to existing programs
Recommend future improvements to the company’s growing list of projects under development
Utilize source code management system (currently Azure DevOps)
Provide technical knowledge to assist technicians in field and development teams
Develop code that meets standards, design and architectural requirements
Understand the impact of changes across the application
Enhance and maintain existing application software, continually providing support for internally developed applications
Accurately communicate development status on a regular basis
Assist the production support team in defect analysis
Other programming and IT duties as required




Qualifications & Experience




Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science or similar field
1 - 3 years’ experience
Knowledge of basic coding languages including C++, HTML5, C#, .NET and JavaScript
Basic programming knowledge
Good understanding of data structure and algorithms
Basic knowledge of debugging and unit testing
Knowledge of relational databases
Ability to learn new software and technologies quickly
Problem solving skills & ability to learn quickly
Ability to work independently with confidence
Drive to produce top quality work in a fast-paced environment




Powered by JazzHR




J2V2ldmiqB
Show more