Job Summary

The Application Developer I is responsible for developing and maintaining the integrity of our internal systems and ensuring proper configuration. The Application Developer I plays a key role of designing, developing and installing software-information solutions and assisting in team development.

Primary Responsibilities

Develops and maintains software applications as assigned for use in the EO Johnson environment ensuring feasibility, usability, and interoperability of other system applications
Performs software development tasks, ensuring compliance with the organization’s software development lifecycle process including analysis, design, development, testing and deployment
Documentation of software applications, usage of systems and operations within the organization, validating that proper documentation is created and maintained throughout the lifecycle of the application
Maintains a knowledge and awareness of the documented systems, standards, and policies and diligently adhere to them as well as assisting in maintaining and updating these as needed
Evaluates documented resolutions and analyze trends for ways to prevent future problems
Determines operational feasibility by evaluating analysis, problem definition, requirements, solution development, and proposed solutions
Updates job knowledge by studying state-of-the-art development tools, programming techniques, and computing equipment; participate in educational opportunities; reading professional publications; maintaining personal networks; participating in professional organizations
Maintains and documents proper source code configurations for software used by the organization
Follows secure coding practices in regards to confidentiality, integrity and availability of datasets and software source code
Performs other duties as assigned


Minimum Required Education & Experience

College diploma in the field of computer science or 2 years equivalent work experience


Preferred Education & Experience

University degree in the field of computer science
2 years equivalent work experience


Additional Eligibility Qualifications

Software programming knowledge including object-oriented programming, numerous programming languages, source code version control, and software development life cycle processes
Working knowledge in database technologies
Working knowledge of a range of diagnostic utilities
Good understanding of the organization’s goals and objectives
Exceptional written and oral communication skills
Exceptional interpersonal skills, with a focus on rapport-building, listening, and questioning skills
Exceptional documentation skills
Ability to conduct research into a wide range of computing issues as required
Ability to absorb and retain information quickly
Ability to present ideas in user-friendly language
Highly self-motivated and directed
Keen attention to detail
Proven analytical and problem-solving abilities
Ability to effectively prioritize and execute tasks in a high-pressure environment
Exceptional customer service orientation
Experience working in a team-oriented, collaborative environment


PHYSICAL DEMANDS

The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform this position. Reasonable accommodation may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform job duties in accordance with state and federal law.

While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit, have repetitive movement (fine motor like typing, writing, keyboarding, filing), talk and-or hear. The employee is occasionally required to walk, stand, reach shoulder height, above and below, pull-push-lift-carry up to 50 pounds, bend-stoop-crouch and twist-turn.

Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision and the ability to adjust focus.

Company Benefits

Locknet Managed IT Services, an EO Johnson Company, offers a competitive compensation and benefits package. Benefits for full-time employees include:

Competitive compensation
Vacation and self-family care days
Parental leave
Group medical, dental, vision and life
401(K) plan with a 50% match up to your first 8%
Discretionary 401(K) profit sharing plan
Company paid short- and long-term disability coverage
Paid Holidays


How To Apply

Locknet Managed IT Services has an online employment application. In order to complete it, you need to apply for a specific position. All open positions can be found on our website at www.locknetmanagedIT.com.

If this is the first time you have applied for a position with Locknet, you will be asked to register. Returning applicants will only need to provide their email address and password.

About Locknet Managed It Services

Locknet Managed IT Services, an EO Johnson Company, is a top managed service provider (MSP) in the nation. With clients and offices throughout Minnesota, Wisconsin and Iowa, Locknet has supported technology strategies for companies for more than 30 years. Locknet’s world-class team is dedicated to making your network safe by providing a range of managed security and network management services, including technology assessments, firewall management, patching, desktop and server support, private-cloud backup and much more. Locknet is UCS-SOC 2 Type 2 Certified, ensuring the highest level of trust and peace of mind for their clients. Read more at www.locknetmanagedIT.com.

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

Locknet Managed IT Services, an EO Johnson Company, is committed to providing equal employment opportunity to all applicants and employees regardless of their race, creed, color, religion, gender, age, national origin, disability, military service, protected veteran status, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local law. We are strongly committed to this policy and believe in the concept and spirit of the law.
Mostrar más