RealREPP is a nationally recognized, full service recruiting firm that is teaming up with an INNOVATIVE AND GROWING FINTECH FIRM in Austin, Texas. This financial technology firm is looking to hire a Junior Software Engineer! The ideal candidate will have the exceptional skills needed to play a critical role in creating software foundations and the dedication to execute code improvement and develop reusable frameworks!

This company offers a fantastic base salary + 100% paid medical, dental, vision, and short-term and long-term disability insurance + 401K + 4% match and PTO!!

Requirements


3+ years of experience in a software development environment- Finance Tech Firm preferred.
Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science, Information Systems, or related field.
Work Hard, Play Hard mentality with dedicated continuous improvement and continuous learning mindset.
Ability to communicate complex technical concepts to senior executives.
Experience in CI-CT-CD tools, API Development and Management, and modular AWS cloud deployable apps.
Understanding of AI-ML and data science models.
Experience in Banking Systems or Lending System is a plus.
Experience in design and development of Java-based systems. SpringBoot experience a plus.
Understanding of cloud engineering and cloud-native design.


This company offers an exceptional base salary, 100% paid medical, dental, vision insurance, 401K + 4% match and PTO.

If you are interested in applying for this position, please send your resume to Resumes@RealREPP.com or register and apply online at www.realrepp.com.

*We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at our company. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, or national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, martial status, veteran status, or disability status. *

*We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at our company. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status.*
Vis merzla göster