Our partner is looking for a Software Engineer in Annapolis Junction, MD. This is a level 1 software engineer role, so we encourage qualified candidates from all backgrounds of technical experience to apply.

The Software Engineer shall be responsible for developing platform management dashboards-views that will display dynamically changing physical and logical resource maps, state, and availability information for complex High Performance Computing (HPC) systems.

The Software Engineer designs, develops, tests, deploys, documents, maintains, and enhances complex and diverse software systems based upon documented requirements. These systems might include, but are not limited to:

processing­ intensive analytics
novel algorithm development
manipulation of extremely large data sets
real-time systems
business management information systems
systems which incorporate data repositories, data transport services, and application and systems development and monitoring


Other Responsibilities (not an exhaustive list):

Reviews and tests software components for adherence to the design requirements and documents test results.
Resolves software problem reports.
Utilizes software development and software design methodologies appropriate to the development environment.
Provides specific input to the software components of system design to include hardware-software trade-offs, software reuse, use of Open Source Software (OSS) and-or Commercial Off­The-Shelf (COTS) Government Off-The-Shelf (GOTS) software in place of new development, and requirements analysis and synthesis from system level to individual software components.
Experience developing in Unix. Ability to perform shell scripting.
Working knowledge of Configuration Management (CM) tools and Web Services implementation.


Requirements

Master's degree in Computer Science or related discipline from an accredited college or university OR
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science or related discipline from an accredited college or university, plus two (2) years of experience as a SWE, in programs and contracts of similar scope, type, and complexity OR
Four (4) years of experience as a SWE, in programs and contracts of similar scope, type, and complexity.
Clearance required: Top Secret-SCI Polygraph
US. Citizenship required


Experience with:

Linux CLI
Writing scripts using Bash-Python
Developing with multiple programming languages such as Python and-or Java in a Linux environment
Creating and integrating custom plugins for COTS and FOSS Data Center Infrastructure Management (DCIM) tools such as Nlyte and Device42
IaC (Infrastructure as Code) concepts, principles and automation tools such as Ansible
CI-CD principles, methodologies, and tools such as GitLab CI
Software frameworks used for searching, monitoring, and analyzing big data such as Splunk and Elastic Stack
Metrics visualization technologies such as Grafana and Kibana
Git Version Control System


Preferred Education, Experience, & Skills

Experience with the Atlassian Tool Suite (JIRA, Confluence)
Tunjukkan lagi