Locations: United States- we are looking for candidates who are flexible to working onsite in multiple locations across the United States.




Salary: $48,000 - $63,000 USD




Want to start your career as a Java Developer?




Paid graduate training, ongoing support, opportunities at leading global employers – the Alumni graduate program gives you everything you need. (And don’t worry, there’s no training bond. No exit fees, no hidden catches).




Here at Wiley Edge, we pair great graduates with brilliant global businesses. Our clients include tier one investment banks and other organizations across a range of industries, from insurance to healthcare to travel.




What you’ll do:




As a software developer with Wiley Edge, you’ll build complex applications in a global team environment.




You’ll love seeing the impact you make when code you’ve written launches to the people who need it. If you stay on the lookout for new ways to get better results through software development, you’ll become an asset to your team.




How the Alumni program works:




Apply via this job advert.
Complete our assessment process.
Get trained at Wiley Edge Academy in an online class for 4-8 weeks with other graduates. Focusing on Golang, or other languages depending on which coding languages our clients are looking for at the time.
Join a Wiley Edge client for 12-24 months while receiving support and salary increases every 6 months.
The vast majority then convert to permanent employees with the client at the end of the program.




What you’ll learn at the Wiley Edge Academy:




How to design, develop, and test a full-stack application.
How to demonstrate professionalism, including communication skills and personal interactions.
How to explain industry concepts at a high level.
An understanding of monitoring, supporting, and troubleshooting, and how it ties into good development processes.




What you'll need:




Bachelor's degree in computer science or a related major
A GPA of 3.0 or higher. We look for potential, not prestige, but it’s important that you enjoy pushing yourself to pick up new ideas.
Experience with OOP (object-oriented programming).
Solid knowledge of software engineering principles (data structures, OOP, design patterns, multithreading).
Skills in troubleshooting and debugging.
Knowledge of database concepts (SQL, stored procs, schema design).
An understanding of the formal SDLC (software development lifecycle).
An understanding of test-driven development.
The right to work without needing visa sponsorship.
A requirement for this role may be to attest and provide proof of vaccination for Covid 19 upon hire.




What you'll get:




Our classes our in-depth and interactive and are composed of small classes with other graduates like you. Our training is created and delivered by industry experts who know your field inside and out. A generous graduate salary.
Pay rises every 6 months to reflect your progress.
Financial assistance for candidates relocating for a role. (The amount of financial assistance depends on the distance you are relocating.)
Fully paid, in-depth, interactive training in small classes with graduates like you. Our training is created and delivered by industry experts who know your field inside out.
A generous graduate salary.
Pay rises every 6 months to reflect your progress.
A flexible benefits package including gym membership.
Ongoing training and support.
Valuable industry experience. Ultimately, a foot in the door to build your career in an in-demand niche.




How to apply:




Hit ‘Apply Now’ to tell us a bit about you.
Complete the online assessment (we’ll send you a link by email).
Complete the interviews with our friendly talent team over phone and video.
Lastly, you’ll interview with one or more of our clients.




So you don’t miss out on your dream job, we encourage you to be open to relocating.




At Wiley Edge, our values support courageous teammates, needle movers, and learning champions all while striving to support the health and well-being of all employees.  We take great pride in celebrating the diversity of each individual who contributes to making Wiley Edge the company it is today and will be in the future. We value diversity both within Wiley Edge and with our partner companies, and we're proud to provide an environment where all our colleagues can flourish. That means promoting a strong culture of equality but, most importantly, inclusion.




We are committed to fair, transparent pay, and we strive to provide competitive compensation in addition to a comprehensive benefits package.  The base pay rate for this position is $48,000- $63,000 USD.  This pay rate represents Wiley Edge’s good faith and reasonable estimate of the base pay for this role at the time of posting and based on the locations listed in the job advertisement. It is anticipated that qualified candidates selected for a placement will receive this pay rate as a starting salary once onsite with the Wiley Edge client, however, the ultimate salary offered for this role may be higher or lower and will be set based on a variety of non-discriminatory factors, including but not limited to, geographic location, skills, and competencies.




 




The stated salary and benefits package will be received once the training in the Wiley Edge Academy has been successfully completed and the candidate starts on-site with the Wiley Edge client. Trainees are paid a stipend of $625 USD for a full week of training in the Academy; training durations vary depending on training pathways and will be disclosed during the recruitment process.




#wileyedge




Location-Division:




United States
Show more