Job Summary

Perform intermediate level system analysis, definition and design activities often of a complex nature for new software applications. Modify and maintain existing applications. This position will interact on a consistent basis with: Other software developers and analysts, project managers database administrators, customers and department management. This position typically will advise and counsel: NA. This position will supervise: NA.

Responsibilities

Job Duty 1 -

Consult users, analyze requirements and recommend technical design and specifications

Job Duty 2 -

Develop, test and implement technical solutions

Job Duty 3 -

Modify and maintain existing applications

Job Duty 4 -

Prepare technical, operational and user related documentation in support of applications

Job Duty 5 -

Provide technical support and training to functional users

Job Duty 6 -

Perform other duties as assigned

Required Qualifications

Educational Requirements

Bachelor's Degree or an equivalent combination of education and experience

Required Experience

Two to four years of job related experience

Preferred Qualifications

Preferred Qualifications:

Preferred Education: Bachelor’s degree in computer science, business administration, or related area preferred

Preferred Work Experience: Four or more years of progressive work experience with CRM technology.

Preferred Certifications: SFDC Certified Developer (DEV-401)

Preferred Skills

Experience in an Agile development environment
SFDC Certified Developer (DEV-401) or equivalent experience with APEX, Visual Force, SOQL
Development experience using Java, JavaScript, and other object-oriented languages
Experience with git, GitHub, or other version control software
Proven experience in developing scheduled batch jobs, Lightning Web Components, workflows, Apex classes, and triggers
Experience using TDD and BDD methodologies
Proven experience in delivering Salesforce applications using LWCs, VisualForce pages, and Apex
Experience using Salesforce data tools (Data Loader, Excel Connector, DemandTools, Eclipse Force.com IDE, Salesforce Extensions for VisualStudio Code)
Strong attention to detail and excellent problem-solving skills
Excellent written and verbal communication skills
Integration experience with ESB platforms and RESTful APIs
ETL experience strongly preferred


Preferred Qualifications

Additional Information: The CRM Developer is responsible for designing, implementing, testing, and deploying CRM solutions (within the SalesForce.com environment) for institute organizations. In addition to standard SFDC configuration, the CRM developer will be responsible for developing solutions that will leverage HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and other technologies. The CRM developer will be responsible for the customization and configuration of standard and non-standard components required to meet business requirements in an extremely high quality. The CRM Developer must be able to communicate well with academic and business units who have varying technical abilities, as well as with staff, contractors, and vendors. The CRM Developer will serve as a technical leader, setting best practices including integration and application development, deployment, testing (unit and systems), and iterative refinement.

Impact & Influence: This position will interact on a consistent basis with: Other software developers and

analysts, project managers, database administrators, functional user, customers, and department management. This position typically will advise and counsel: NA. This position will supervise: NA

Skills

Knowledge, Skills, & Abilities

This job requires working knowledge and skills in application of query language, web development tools, procedural development tools, relational databases, structured programming and understanding of the software development life cycle.

Equal Employment Opportunity

Georgia Tech provides equal opportunity to all faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including applicants for admission and-or employment, contractors, volunteers, and participants in institutional programs, activities, or services. Georgia Tech complies with all applicable laws and regulations governing equal opportunity in the workplace and in educational activities. Georgia Tech prohibits discrimination, including discriminatory harassment, on the basis of race, ethnicity, ancestry, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, genetics, or veteran status in its programs, activities, employment, and admissions. This prohibition applies to faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including affiliates, invitees, and guests.

Background Check

Successful candidate must be able to pass a background check. Please visit http:--policylibrary.gatech.edu-employment-pre-employment-screening
Mostrar más