Department Information

The School of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at the Georgia Institute of Technology is one of the largest producers of electrical engineers and computer engineers in the United States. Almost 2,600 students are enrolled in the School’s graduate and undergraduate programs, and in the last academic year, 801 degrees were awarded. All ECE undergraduate and graduate programs are in the top five of the most recent college rankings by U.S. News & World Report.

In addition to the main campus in Atlanta, Georgia, ECE also has permanent operations at Georgia Tech-Lorraine in France and Georgia Tech-Shenzhen in China. Graduate students who spend at least one semester each at three Georgia Tech locations (Atlanta, Lorraine, and Shenzhen on three continents—North America, Europe, and Asia) can earn the Georgia Tech Global Engineering Immersion Program (GEIP) Certificate when they receive the Georgia Tech M.S. degree.

Over 110 ECE faculty members are involved in 11 areas of research and education – bioengineering, computer systems and software, digital signal processing, electrical energy, electromagnetics, electronic design and applications, nantechnology, optics and photonics, systems and controls, telecommunications, and VLSI systems and digital design – and the School is either home to or a key player in almost 20 research centers and consortia.

ECE is key to Georgia Tech's growing reputation as an internationally recognized educational and research and development university. ECE is firmly committed to sustaining excellence in traditional areas of strength and venturing into burgeoning areas of opportunity.

Job Summary

Perform intermediate level system analysis, definition and design activities often of a complex nature for new software applications. Modify and maintain existing applications. This position will interact on a consistent basis with: Other software developers and analysts, project managers database administrators, customers and department management. This position typically will advise and counsel: NA. This position will supervise: NA.

Responsibilities

Job Duty 1 -

Consult users, analyze requirements and recommend technical design and specifications

Job Duty 2 -

Develop, test and implement technical solutions

Job Duty 3 -

Modify and maintain existing applications

Job Duty 4 -

Prepare technical, operational and user related documentation in support of applications

Job Duty 5 -

Provide technical support and training to functional users

Job Duty 6 -

Perform other duties as assigned

Required Qualifications

Educational Requirements

Bachelor's Degree or an equivalent combination of education and experience

Required Experience

Two to four years of job related experience

Skills

Knowledge, Skills, & Abilities

This job requires working knowledge and skills in application of query language, web development tools, procedural development tools, relational databases, structured programming and understanding of the software development life cycle.

Equal Employment Opportunity

Georgia Tech provides equal opportunity to all faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including applicants for admission and-or employment, contractors, volunteers, and participants in institutional programs, activities, or services. Georgia Tech complies with all applicable laws and regulations governing equal opportunity in the workplace and in educational activities. Georgia Tech prohibits discrimination, including discriminatory harassment, on the basis of race, ethnicity, ancestry, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, genetics, or veteran status in its programs, activities, employment, and admissions. This prohibition applies to faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including affiliates, invitees, and guests.

Other Information

Salary range: $60,707-$82,561

Location: Hybrid (Atlanta, GA)

Job grade: I4

This is not a supervisory position.

This position does not have financial responsibilities.

No, this position will not be required to drive.

This role is not considered a position of trust.

This position does not require a purchasing card (P-Card).

This position will not travel

This position does not require security clearance.

Background Check

Successful candidate must be able to pass a background check. Please visit http:--policylibrary.gatech.edu-employment-pre-employment-screening
Voir plus