Are you a Junior Software Engineer who is ready for a new challenge that will launch your career to the next level?




Tired of being treated like a company drone?
Tired of promised adventures during the hiring phase, then dropped off on a remote contract and never seen or heard from the mothership again?
Our engineers were certainly tired of the same.




At GliaCell our slogan is “We make It happen”.




We will immerse you in the latest technologies.
We will develop and support your own personalized training program to continue your individual growth.
We will provide you with work that matters with our mission focused customers, and surround you with a family of brilliant engineers.




Culture isn’t something you need to talk about…if it just exists.




If this sounds interesting to you, then we’d like to have a discussion regarding your next adventure! If you want to be a drone, this isn’t the place for you.




We Make It Happen!




GliaCell Technologies focuses on Software & System Engineering in Enterprise and Cyber Security solution spaces. We excel at delivering stable and reliable software solutions using Agile Software Development principles. These provide us the capability to deliver a quick turn-around using interactive applications and the integration of industry standard software stacks.




GliaCell’s Enterprise capabilities include Full-Stack Application Development, Big Data, Cloud Technologies, Analytics, Machine Learning, AI, and DevOps Containerization. We also provide customer solutions in the areas of CND, CNE, and CNO by providing our customers with assessments and solutions in Threat Mitigation, Vulnerability Exposure, Penetration Testing, Threat Hunting, and Preventing Advanced Persistent Threat.




We Offer:




Long term job security
Competitive salaries & bonus opportunities
Challenging work you are passionate about
Ability to work with some amazingly talented people




Job Description:




GliaCell is seeking a Junior Software Engineer on one of our subcontracts. This is a full-time position offering the opportunity to support a U.S. Government customer. The mission is to provide technical expertise that assists in sustaining critical mission-related software and systems to a large government contract.




Key Responsibilities:




Analyze user requirements to derive software design and performance requirements.
Design and code new software or modify existing software to add new features.
Debug existing software and correct defects.
Integrate existing software into new or modified systems or operating environments.
Develop simple data queries for existing or proposed databases or data repositories.
Provide recommendations for improving documentation and software development process standards.




Key Requirements:




To be considered for this position you must have the following:




Possess an active or rein-statable TS-SCI with Polygraph security clearance.
U.S. Citizenship.
Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science or related discipline from an accredited college or university is required.
Four (4) years of SWE experience on projects with similar software processes may be substituted for a Bachelor’s Degree.
Works well independently as well as on a team.
Strong communication skills.




Key Skills:




Solid experience in design, deployment, and operation of Linux and container technology.
Experience with monitoring, metric collection, virtualization, and networking.
Kubernetes a plus.
Willing and capable of troubleshooting network and cloud applications.
Experience with deployment and operation of CI-CD frameworks.
Familiarity with Java, Python and Version Control Systems (Git)




Location: Annapolis Junction, Maryland




Salary: Based on Education, Years of Experience, Skill and Abilities




Check Out Our Benefits:




Paid Time Off
Medical, Dental & Vision Benefits
Life & Disability Insurances
Tuition, Training & Certification Reimbursement
401K Contribution
Employee Referral Bonus Program
Equipment Reimbursement
Team Engagement & Outings
Swag




…And more!




Learn more about GliaCell Technologies:




To apply for this position, respond to this job posting and attach an updated resume for us to review.




GliaCell Technologies, LLC is an Equal Opportunity-Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, protected veteran status, or disability status.




Powered by JazzHR




IvV9oQkbsY
Daha fazla göster