Developer-Programmer







WHO WE ARE:



At HHS Tech Group (HTG), our work matters, and each of us makes a difference in the lives of people every day.



HTG is a leader in the development and delivery of innovative, purpose-built modular software and technology solutions to clients in the commercial and government sectors.







WHAT WE DO:



HHS Tech Group creates innovative, purpose-built technology products and solutions, resulting in value and positive, quantifiable impact for our clients and the people they serve.



Our people bring our software to life through collaborative relationships with our clients, working as a team, helping to solve complex problems that create positive personal and community impact for the people our clients serve.



Each day, our software products and our people are making a difference.







OUR PEOPLE MATTER MOST:



Improving the lives of others and making an impact daily is no simple task. We are dedicated to our team’s professional and personal growth and well-being. Some key rewards and benefits include:



Generously sponsored Medical Insurance
Fully paid premiums on dental, vision, life and disability insurance.
Generous 401k matching program (100% match up to 6%)
Tuition and Certification reimbursement
Open PTO policy





Join us!







WHO WE ARE HIRING: Developer-Programmer







WHAT YOU WILL DO:







We are seeking one full-time Developer- Programmer to work on designing, developing, and testing integration layer software that will expose APIs to third-party vendors to meet the CMS patient access interoperability rule. They will also help rewrite more than 50 web services so as to move from BPM to ACE. The Developer- Programmer will write software for the EDI team (Electronic Data Interchange – the HIPAA standard for exchanging electronic health claims, etc.) to upgrade Core2 and the Minnesota Provider Screening and Enrollment (MPSE) software from WTX (support going away) to ITX and ACE.







Responsibilities:



Collaborate with business analysts and developers to produce software designs
Formulate program specifications and basic prototypes
Transform software designs and specifications into high functioning code in the appropriate language
Integrate individual software solutions to higher level systems
Use web-based tools to create and advance applications
Test code to ensure it produces the desirable results and perform debugging when necessary
Perform upgrades to make software and systems more secure and efficient
Create technical documentation
Provide knowledge transfer





Required Experience



Seven (7) years’ experience in Developer-Programmer role
A Master’s degree substitutes for three years of experience, or a Bachelor’s degree substitutes for two years, or an Associate’s degree substitutes for one year
Two (2) engagements lasting more than one (1) year in Developer-Programmer role
One (1) year IBM integration Bus (IIB) experience





Preferred Experience



WebSphere developer who has experience providing analysis and developing and using:
Business Process Execution Language (BPEL)
Process server administration
Experience providing analysis and developing and using:
Core Java
IBM BPM 8.5
JAVA 2EE
Spring Core
Spring JDBC
AXIS2, XML
XSD
SOAP
MAVEN
Apache open source Libraries, WebSphere, Oracle
IBM Integration Designer (IID)
HHS Tech Group-Engage Point Notify
BIRT-Freemarker template languages
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) and Audit Products
Excellent knowledge with relational databases, SQL and ORM technologies
Detail-oriented and excellent concentration ability
An analytical mindset and critical thinking
Demonstrable ability to discover and fix errors in code
Strong communication skills
Ability to work independently and in team settings









Mostrar más