We are a national, innovative, high-growth software company devoted to K12 education administration. Our products beat the competition by focusing on all business operations of K12 schools, including both financial and school nutrition management. We have a deep understanding of K12 school systems and regulations, with a focus on providing creative, integrated and user-friendly solutions supported




by excellent customer service. Our workforce is talented, loyal, dedicated and highly enthusiastic. This is a fantastic career opportunity for the right individual.




CULTURE




We offer challenging work in a team environment. We respect each other and collaborate for continuous improvement. We are the experts in our product lines and we anticipate the needs of our customers. Our customers say we work efficiently and always strive to provide the proper solution. We have achieved this by building relationships based upon: expertise, patience, attentiveness, clear positive communication, tenacity, and a calm presence.




BASIC FUNCTION




As a Junior Engineer at LINQ, you will work as a member of a cross-functional team to deliver business critical applications of high function and technical quality. You will be responsible for working closely with the product owners and quality assurance to create software that fulfills business needs. You are capable of quickly learning new business domains as well as working in a team environment. You are passionate about delivering high quality, maintainable software to the business.




KEY TRAITS




Technical Excellence: A passion for learning while building cutting edge software through application of best engineering practices




Continuous Improvement: A self-driven desire to find better ways to accomplish things




Teamwork: A commitment to working as part of a team to achieve optimal results




Knowledge - Skill Requirements




Experience writing software learned via classwork or applicable projects




Degree in Computer Science, Information Systems, etc, or equivalent working experience




Understanding of relational and-or non-relational database systems




Strong understanding of object-oriented programming




Experience or knowledge in creating applications using the following technologies:




REST APIs
Developing software in an object oriented language such as C# or Java
Has worked with a JavaScript framework such as React or Angular
Microsoft SQL Server
Design and implementation of REST APIs
Strong belief in and use of best practices
Understanding the use of pull requests and peer code review
Excellent written and verbal communication skills with the ability to communicate effectively with all stakeholders
Collaborate with teams to clarify design and implementation while meeting project needs
Collaborate with other developers and architects (when appropriate) to determine optimal solution architecture, efficiency, maintainability and scalability
Complete projects-tasks in a timely fashion while meeting sprint goals and commitments




TOTAL REWARDS




Remote working with a friendly virtual environment
Ability to work in a physical office, if near one of our 4 offices
One America 401k plan with 4% employer matching on total earnings, not just base (100% fully vested)
Company Bonus Plan or Target Sales Commission Plan
Flexible Open Paid Time Off Plan
10 paid holidays
16 hours of paid volunteer time
Blue Cross Blue Shield benefit network (medical-dental-vision)
Low-deductible PPO option or HDHP option with employer contributed HSA
Dental with child orthodontia
100% Employer paid Short Term Disability-Long Term Disability-Basic Life-Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance
Health and wellness benefits including gym and Headspace reimbursement
Professional development opportunities




EOE STATEMENT:




We are an equal employment opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, gender, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status or any other characteristic protected by law
Show more