Perrygo is a small, rapidly growing company; we are passionate about our employees as well as supporting our customers and their mission. We are excited for the opportunity to bring aboard highly motivated and energetic individuals to join our teams. Currently, we are seeking a Computer Programmer - Junior to Senior level. This role supports our NAVAIR customer in Lexington Park, MD.




Role And Responsibilities




Create, modify, and test the code, and scripts that allow computer applications to run. Work from specifications drawn up by software and web developers or other individuals. May develop and write computer programs to store, locate, and retrieve specific documents, data, and information.




Required Experience, Education, And Qualifications




A Junior level person within a labor category has less than three (3) years' experience performing work related to the labor category functional description and a BA-BS degree. A Journeyman level person within a labor category has three (3) to ten (10) years of experience performing work related to the labor category functional description and a BA-BS degree. A Senior level person within a labor category has over ten (10) years of experience performing work related to the labor category functional description and a BA-BS degree.




6 years' additional work experience related to labor category functional description may be substituted for a Bachelor's Degree. Associate's Degree plus 4 years' additional work experience related to labor category functional description may be substituted for a Bachelor's Degree. Bachelor's Degree plus 4 years additional work experience related to labor category functional description may be substituted for a Master's Degree.




Security Clearance




Secret Clearance is Required. US Citizenship is required.




Contract




This position is pending a contract award.




COVID-19 Requirements




Perrygo may require applicants and employees to provide proof of being fully vaccinated against COVID-19 or have an approved accommodation on file.
Perrygo is a covered contractor under Executive Order 14042 on Ensuring Adequate COVID Safety Protocols for Federal Contractors. All applicants and employees are required to be compliant with the EO, unless there is an approved reasonable accommodation-exemption in place.




Perrygo Consulting Group, LLC is an Equal Opportunity Employer, for all individuals, including protected veterans and those with disabilities. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, sex, color, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, or veteran status.




Perrygo Consulting Group, LLC participates in E-Verify.




If being a part of a small, growing company while having the opportunity to work on exciting projects with challenging tasks excites you – then please apply today!




Compensation Package - We offer an excellent compensation package with competitive salaries and meaningful benefits, including:




Paid Time Off (PTO)-Sick Leave
11 Paid Holidays
Flexible Work Schedules (offering a healthy work-life balance whenever possible)
Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
Fitness facility access
Medical, Dental, and Vision
LTD-STD, AD&D, and Life-Employer Paid
Supplemental Life and Accident options
Health Savings Account (HSA) with employer contribution
401K Plan with employer Safe Harbor contribution
Profit Sharing Plan
Show more