Role: Application developer (Fully remote)




Location: Colorado (Candidate must be local)




Provide support and debug issues identified within the Colorado Child Welfare System environment
Create and enhance scripts-snippets of code for the application to be run on the RedHat Enterprise Linux environment.
Developing client server application-process and libraries.
Identifying bottlenecks or bugs and troubleshooting integration issues.
Testing code quality and durability.
Maintaining the automation and quality of the code.
Be capable of maintaining source repository using AureDevOps-Team Foundation Server.
Perform unit testing and documentation of developed code.
Debug issues identified within testing efforts and generate bug descriptions and service desk tickets as needed.




Resource Requirements




In depth knowledge of application development, and application design.
Demonstrated a high level of understanding in development concepts, technical designs, database designs, application specifications and system integration.
Full stack application development experience.
Front End Technologies-Concepts: HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery.
Back End Technologies-Concepts: ASP.NET MVC, C# and RESTful API design.
Relational (Oracle, SQL Server).
Oracle experience - Required
Source control using git - Required
Working with legacy code - Required
Familiarity with Powershell & Unix Bash Shell Scripting
Familiarity with Networking, Debugging networking issues
Familiarity with Working knowledge of Continuous Integration-Continuous Deployment and DevOps principles
Familiarity experience with Azure DevOps tool suite is strongly preferred: Boards, Wiki, Repos, Pipeline, Test Plan, Artifacts, etc.
Familiarity experience with real-time logging and monitoring tools like Splunk and Dynatrace
Excellent team player with the ability to influence and negotiate
Effective time management. Must be able to prioritize and multi-task effectively
Passion for enterprise-level agile development, problem solving, the ability to quickly learn new concepts, and must be able to interact with all levels of technical and business teams
Team player, self-motivated and able to work collaboratively across organizations.




Yeshwanth M




Technical Recruiter




Email




Work:lt;-p>




Rockville, MD | McLean, VA | Palo Alto, CA




StellarIT.com | StellariDeaLabs.com




provided by Dice
Mostrar más