The Children’s Institute is hiring for an Application Developer!




This position is Fully Remote and works Monday through Friday.




The Application Developer works closely with all areas of Information Systems (IS) including the IS team, the end users of IS services throughout The Institute, and with vendors representing the installed information systems applications and equipment. The application developer is primarily responsible for assessing, designing and developing solutions to improve the efficiency of staff and customers. The design-development may be in the form of SQL database development, applications development including node.js, React, GIT, PowerShell scripting, and interfaces. Also, will include design-development work associated with application upgrades, conversions and integration projects.




The Application Developer Must Possess




Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Information Systems or related field of study or have 3 to 5 years of experience in application development and systems integration required.




Must have working design and development knowledge of SQL Development, PowerShell, node.js, and React.




Knowledge of SharePoint, Oracle DB, Report writing and GIT a plus.




Must know how to develop secure applications.




Ability to work both independently and as part of a team.




Act 33-34 Clearances; FBI Clearance required.




The Children’s Institute of Pittsburgh is an Equal Opportunity Employer. We serve a diverse population of children and families, and we want our workforce to reflect that same diversity. We want all interested individuals to feel welcome in applying for a career at our amazing place – we can’t wait to meet you!




The Children’s Institute does not exclude, deny benefits to, or otherwise discriminate against any person on the basis of race, color, national origin, religious creed, AIDS or HIV status, disability, ancestry, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, genetic information, marital status, union membership, or veteran-military status in employment.




At The Children’s Institute, we pride ourselves on building teams of individuals who bring their best every day – because without that, we couldn’t make such a large and lasting impact on the amazing kids and families we serve. We need team members who are team players, collaborative and creative, idea-generators and go-getters. Our children and families need you!
Show more