SUMMARY Around 8 years of expertise experience as a Full stack .Net Developer for performing Client/Server, Web Applications and Windows Applications using Microsoft technologies and .NET framework. Experience in interacting with Clients and Users for gathering requirements. Proficient knowledge in .NET languages C#, ASP.NET (Web Forms and MVC), VB.NET and Win Forms, WPF. Strong understanding of OOPS concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction & Encapsulation and design implementations using UML. Experience in Designing and Developing Webpage Graphic User Interface (GUI) using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS. Experience of Cross Browser Compatibility with updating webpage using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript and jQuery with great involvement towards AngularJS and Node.js MVC frameworks. Strong knowledge in using Object Oriented Programming concepts in JavaScript and JavaScript Design Pattern. Solid working experience with Model View Controller (MVC) in Implementing View, Model, Controller and View model by using ASP.Net MVC Framework  5.0/4.0/3.0.  Strong experience in design of web - based applications using ASP.NET  4.5/4.0/3.5/2.0 , C#  4.5/4.0/3.0/2.0 , VB.NET, AJAX, Master Pages, Web Services, Windows services and Server Controls. Incorporated many rich, user friendly, responsive features in the application using Angular JS, BOOTSTRAP, HTML 5. Experience hosting web applications in IIS, developing applications using the ASP.NETMVC. Expertise inAngularJScontrollers, directives, components, factory and service resources, routings, filters & events. Expertise in developing Client/Server Applications on various architectural design patterns including MVC3.0/4.0, Two-Tier & Three Tier Architecture. Involved in Creating Two Tired Authentication for preventing fraud. Working Knowledge on Linux based system administration. Hand some experience on Open source Technologies like My Sql, Q mail, C, C++ and Linux. Experience in designing, developing and consume ASP.Net web services and WCF Services to achieve Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). Experience in development of ASP.NET Web Forms using HTML5, Telerik controls, jQuery and communicated with database using WCF service. Worked on C# and ADO.net for developing windows applications as well as developing the web applications using Language Integrated Query (LINQ). Experience in using message brokers such as Active MQ and Rabbit MQ. Involved in writing TSQL queries to get data from different sources and test results. Proficiency in multiple databases like MongoDB, MySQL, ORACLE and MS SQL Server. Migrated Database from SQL Databases (Oracle and SQL Server) to NO SQL Databases (MONGODB) Extensive experience in development and optimizing of Queries using SQL Query Analyzer, Stored Procedures and Triggers. Worked extensively with SQL server database of creating, updating and insertion of tables and indexes. Involved in writing Test plans, Test cases and interacted with business users to conduct User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Experienced in reporting tools like Crystal Reports and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Skilled in creating test traceability matrix, test strategy, test plan, test procedures, test cases, test log, automated test scripts, test results and defect reporting. Strong hands on experience in manual testing and automated testing using Quality center and Quick Test Pro. Familiar in updating, accessing and version controlling the code using Team Foundation Server (TFS), sub-version and GitHub. Involved in leading many daily SCRUM meetings which establishes the context of daily goals of work. Have capability of implementing business rules in different layers. Strong team builder having excellent analytical skills with capability to handle new technologies. Solid skills for Management such as Communication & Time with good team skills for improving the intention to work in fast paced environment. Strong experience towards Peer Programming of Agile software development technique. TECHNICAL SKILLS .Net Technologies: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, VB.NET, LINQ, Ajax, Web Services, Silverlight, WPF, Prism. Web Technologies: ASP, VB Script, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular Js, NodeJS, Kendo UI, Knockout.js, Windows Azure, CSS. Programming Languages: C#.NET, Visual Basic.NET, C, C++, Java, PHP, TSQL, PL/SQL Database SQL Server: SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) Database: MS-SQL Server  2017/2016/2014 , Oracle 11g, MySQL, MongoDB, TSQL Version Controls: GitHub, Visual Source Safe and Team Foundation Server TFS Methodologies: Agile/Scrum, waterfall and TDD Design Patterns: MVC, MVVM Reporting Tools: MS-SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Report Development Tools: MS Visual Studio.NET 2015/2013,2012, 2010/2008, Microsoft office suite Web Servers: I Microsoft IIS (5.0/6.0, 7.0, 7.5), Windows Server OS 2008/2012. Browsers: Firefox, Chrome, IE, Opera, Safari PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Florida, FL Full Stack .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Design sprint meetings for the product development before a feature is started. Developed application using ASP.NETMVC framework. Created application using Bootstrap for responsive design. Developed UI Pages using React, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery. Used Master Page feature for consistent layout of pages in the application. Implemented technical use cases by designing and developing the appropriate web pages in Asp.net using C# code behind. Involved in developing ASP.NETapplication using MVC design pattern. Developed reusable React Components required for the feature. Experienced using JQuery to implement JavaScript features in code. Strong knowledge and experience on object oriented programming (OOPS). Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component-based architecture provided by React. Configure Backup and Recovery Methods for MongoDB Extensive experience collaborating with developersusing version control tools such as Git, TFS, and JIRA. Written Rest web API’s to get data from MongoDB. Flexibility to work under various environments & desire to work and learn different Upcoming Technologies Performed automated unit testing using NUnit and Qunit. Worked with team and fixed the issues as part of the bug life cycle. Worked with UX and BA’s for Accessibility for the Application. Actively participated in Scrum meetings of the project implemented in Agile project management methodology. Environment: .NetFramework 4.5/4.0, C#.net, ASP.NETMVC 4.0, ADO.NET, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, React, OOP, Web API, MongoDB, SSRS, TFS, Agile. Confidential, Olympia, WA Full Stack .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Requirement gathering, Design, Development and Testing of Web Form, project life cycle (SDLC). Built Responsive web applications using Bootstrap, HTML5 and CSS3 taking PSD to HTML directly. Effectively used Angular JS for extending HTML while building in Dependency Injection into Single Page Applications SPA's . Used JavaScript, AngularJSand AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls. Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#. Implemented technical use cases by designing and developing the appropriate web pages in Asp.net using C# code behind. Involved in developing ASP.NETapplication using MVC 3 design pattern. Developed and Consumed XML Web Services (SOAP). Developed User Interface (UI) using WPF for the better look and feel of the desktop-based application. Created WCF Services responsible for communicating and providing real time data from integrated server to Client Application. Implemented MVC design pattern for developing the Web Application and used MVC5 application using Razor syntax for view engine, also used C# for the back end. Created RESTful services using ASP.NET Web API. Designed, developed and implementation of services using SOAP\REST, creating REST services using ASP.NET Web API. Used ADO.NET as a data source for accessing databases. Implemented Rabbit MQ for windows with Consumers & Procedures for windows services and data integration. Stored Information about queries, exchanges and bindings and distributed database using Rabbit MQ. Involved in operations of MongoDB on Microsoft Windows and Linux systems. Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery. Experience migrating from Microsoft SQL to MongoDB. Extensively used ADO.NET objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, Dataset and Data View for reading/updating records in the database. Involved in writing complex SQL Statements, Views and Stored Procedures, Indexes to validate data and ensure system integrity and security Written LINQ functions for data access. Worked on Message Queue Tasks for Bypassing and receiving messages, specifying and falling when time-out occurs and overwriting the message. Designed SSRS Reports using TSQL queries based on business requirements. Experience in programming tasks-stored procedures, triggers, cursors using SQL Server with TSQL. Developed reports by pulling data from various sources and presenting in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), also used Datasets for the SSRS reports. Participated in periodic technical reviews of various modules and developed schema to improve them. Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for continuous integration and version control and used Fiddler to debug web request and responses. Environment: .NetFramework 4.5/4.0, C#.net, ASP.NETMVC 4.0, ADO.NET, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular JS, XML, OOP, WCF, WPF, Web API, MongoDB, SQL Server 2012, TSQL, SSRS, TFS, Agile. Confidential, ST. LOUIS, MO Full Stack .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in collecting, analyzing and understanding the business requirements from the customers and business analysts. Involved in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for analysis, design, development, documentation and testing of projects and deliverables. Implemented UI using ASP.NET, C#, .NET, MVC 4.0, HTML5, XML, JavaScript, CSS3, Angular JS, AJAX, Bootstrap and server controls. Experience in adding Multi-factor authentication to Asp.net and C# for prevention of fraud. Implemented core features of Angular-JS framework such as dependency Injection, Data-binding, Filters, Directives, Templates, Services and Deep Linking Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions. Experience in design and implementation of services using WCF SOAP\REST, creating REST services using ASP.NET Web API. Used WPF of .NET for creating control templates and more appealing visual appearance. Developed code to validate the user credentials for authenticating user to access the WCF service. Add project users to the AWSaccount with multifactor authentication enabled and least privilege permissions. Involved in creating and managing access roles and providing the security to different levels of legal teams. Used ADO.NET extensively for retrieving, querying, storage, and data manipulation for achieving continuous database connectivity. Worked on cloud computing using Windows Azure and SQL Server Azure. Implemented Rabbit MQ for Windows with Direct Exchanges, with Consumers and Producers for data integration with Windows Services. Implemented the function to send and receive AMQP messages on Rabbit MQ synchronously and asynchronously, and send JMS message to Apache Active MQ on the edge device. Used and Worked on Mongo-DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication and schema design. Experience in Installing, Administering, and Optimizing MongoDB instances Configure Backup and Recovery Methods for MongoDB. Created and maintained databases, tables, stored procedures, indexes, database check constraints, and business rules using T-SQL. Written simple to complex stored procedures using TSQL to retrieve the data from SQL Server database. Developed extensive Stored Procedures and Triggers in SQL Server, also developed classes for connecting to the SQL Server Database. Used MSMQ Microsoft Message Queuing for building applications. Performed Unit Testing with the testing tool NUnit and involved in Unit test case, code review checklist preparation and validation. Developed Agile Software Development methodologies to enable efficient and effective high-quality software development. Environment: C#, ASP.Net MVC 4.0, VB.NET, WEB API, WCF, WPF, HTML5, CSS3, BootStrap, Angular JS, Node JS, AJAX, Java Script, Ado.net Azure, Rabbit MQ, MongoDB, TSQL, SQL Server, MSMQ, NUnit, Agile. Confidential, Monroe, MI Full Stack .Net Developer Responsibilities: Participated in requirements gathering and compiled them into design document. Involved in Discussion Board for Client Interaction for the change requests and follow- ups. Developed user interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS and Bootstrap. Utilized ASP.NET validation controls and JavaScript, jQuery to perform client-side validation Used Master pages, Update Panel, Rad Grid, Tab Strip, Mask Edit and Extender controls. Developed the Web Services and invoked them by using XML, SOAP and WSDL tool for creating proxy classes. Worked with SOAPUI to test the Web Services. Developed middle layer using C#.Net and ASP.NET. Created and used User Controls and Custom Controls. Created WCF Service to retrieve and send information from client side without post-back. Used ADO.NET for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation interface screens developed using ASP.NET. Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery. Implementation of MongoDB security mechanism with various Authentications. Created Joins, Views, functions, stored procedures and triggers as part of the Database programming. Involved in performance tuning and query optimization. Used forms based Authentication and role based Authorization for security. Involved in designing database, creating tables, writing complex queries and writing Stored Procedures using SQL 2008. Used SSRS to generate reports and integrated with asp.net web page using report viewer. Maintenance/Enhancement of Project and handling/fixing bug on daily basis reported by Help Desk Tested the application as per the test cases and business logic using unit test and fixed the bugs. Worked with Team Foundation Source Control (TFS) which stores all code, as well as a record of all changes and current check-outs for versioning. Followed Agile methodologies (Scrum) and Test-Driven Development. Environment: .Net Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2013, ASP.NET 3.5, C#, ASP.Net, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, BootStrap, WCF, Ado.net, Web Services, MongoDB, SQL SERVER 2008 R2, SSRS, TFS, Agile/SCRUM Confidential .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Design, Development and Testing. HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Bootstrap, and ASP.NET MVC pattern are used to develop the UI screens. To provide the front-end functionality and rich user experience jQuery and Angular JS are used Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panel to manage the post back of the web page to server, AJAX Script Manager and Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files. Involved in performing the client-side validations using java script. Involved in development of Web Forms, Classes using C#.NET that incorporates both N-tier architecture and database connectivity Developed Custom Controls and User controls for reusable part of the web pages using C#. NET with ASP.NET. Worked on ADO.NET components SQL Connection Object, SQL Command Object, Data Reader, Data Adapter, Data Set and Data View to provide communication to the database and extensively used Grid view control throughout the application. Involved in creating Use Case diagrams and ER-Diagrams. Involved in writing and maintaining complex SQL Queries and the required Stored Procedures, Triggers Designed and developed Stored Procedures and Triggers in database using SQL Server and responsible for writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes Created reports using SSRS and Crystal Reports. Wrote the Unit test cases for testing functionality in this entire module. Involves in Unit Testing and Integration Testing of the entire application. Used Source Code Control Systems like MS Visual Source Safe, Team Foundation Server. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, Angular JS, Microsoft Visual Studio .NET, C#, ASP.NET MVC, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2005, IIS, SSRS, Crystal Reports, Unit Testing, VSS, TFS. Confidential .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Requirement gathering phase to gather the requirements from the business users and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements. Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Produced content pages withCSSlayout and style markup presentations and usedJavaScriptmethods and properties. Involved in performing the client-side validations using java script. Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI. Generated new and edited existing user interface with CSS to accommodate new changes in design and logic. Developed application using .Net, C# and MVC Framework. Responsible for cross browser compatibility and hence exposure to popular browsers. Stored procedures and functions in SQL Server according to the requirements of the front-end. Worked on testing frameworks MS Test and NUnit. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, .NET 3.5, C#, SQL Server, MS Test, N unit. 