SUMMARY Having 8 years of experience as a web application developer and software engineer using Java / J2EE, Spring Boot, Hibernate ORM, Micro Services, HTML5.0, CSS2.0, jQuery, Angular JS. Experience object - oriented programming (OOP) concepts. Seven years of IT industry experience encompassing a wide range of skill set, roles and industry verticals. Extensive experience wif analysis, design, development, customizations and implementation of software applications including billing applications. Proficient in analyzing and translating business requirements to technical requirements and architecture. Strong database skills, Object Oriented Programming and development noledge Experience in leading and managing teams. Handled multiple roles - Project Lead, Software Developer, Solution provider, Analyst. Familiarity wif development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT). Expertise in designing, developing middleware components for software using multithreading, data structures and design patterns. Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new noledge. A person wif multi-tasking and organizational skills and high ethical standards. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team Ability to work in teams as well as an individual, quick learner and able to meet deadlines. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages and Technologies: Spring Boot, micro Services, Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP,Java Script, jQuery, Angular JS O/S: Window XP/7/10, UNIX, Linux, Ubuntu No SQL Databases: MongoDB Version control/Tools: SVN, GitHub Databases: Postgre SQL, DB2, MySQL Frameworks: SpringBoot, Hibernate, Junit, jQuery, Angular JS, CSS Boot Strap Web and Application Server: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere Methodologies: Agile Scrum, Waterfall Additional Skills: BPM Camunda, Web service SOAP UI Tool, Postman PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Dallas, TX Sr. Java Developer Responsibilities: Actively participated in gathering Business requirements to implement functional and technical specifications. Ability to translate business requirements into technical specifications. Breakdown requirements into user stories, product backlogs grooming and manage deliverables. Continuous integration, unit tests, code coverage, deployment process plan periodic releases. Responsible to manage data coming from various sources and involved in database maintenance and loading of structured data Developed Unit test cases as per the business requirements and involved in end-to-end testing Experience in agile environment using a CI/CD model methodology. Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of data. Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3. Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery. Used Jenkins to build and troubleshoot automated testing. Rewrite existing Java, J2EE application in micro Services Spring Boot. Responsibilities for creation of Database, Business Logic to display the records dynamically on template based on query, providing user permission to access features of the site. Performed unit testing and code reviews. Build and maintain code libraries to support analytics. Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project. Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs. Update, maintain and change the current web applications as per the project requirement. Skilled in using collections in Java for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects. Confidential, Chicago Sr. Java Developer Responsibilities: Ability to translate business requirements into technical specifications. Used GitHub for continuous delivery. Dynamic implementation of SQL server works on website using SQL developer tool. Involved in understanding and analyzing the client's business, requirements for the system. Improved the application by designing and developing it using HTML and JavaScript. Used data structures like directories, tuples, object-orientedand inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks. Confidential - Chicago Sr. Java Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for delivering solution to our customer in the Telecommunication sector. Deliver new and complex high-quality solutions to clients in response to varying business requirements Responsible for managing scope, planning, tracking, change control, aspects of the project. Responsible for TEMPeffective communication between the project team and the customer. Provide day to day deliverables to the project team and regular project status to the customer. Translate customer requirements into formal requirements and design documents, establish specific solutions, and leading the efforts including programming and testing that culminate in client acceptance of the results. Utilize in-depth noledge of functional and Technical experience in BGW and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction wif industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer. Establish Quality Procedure for the team and continuously monitor and audit to ensure team meets quality goals. Key projects handled so far include GAMMA, HALO (IPFLEX, MISM, MISS, and AVPN.), ANIRA, TDR Framework, BGW UI. Hands onon promising project IOT using microservices Platform. All the Tools and languages mentioned in the key skills has been used in this Application for ATT Client. Confidential Sr. Analyst Responsibilities: Actively participated in gathering Business requirements to implement functional and technical specifications. Ability to translate business requirements into technical specifications. Breakdown requirements into user stories, product backlogs grooming and manage deliverables. Continuous integration, unit tests, code coverage, deployment process plan periodic releases. Read an JSON file as stream of bytes, defined Go struct data type and mapped file data onto to the struct. Dynamic implementation of SQL server works on website using SQL developer tool. Used HTML/CSS, XML and JavaScript for UI development. Experience in development test automation. Skilled in using collections in Java for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects. Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document. Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality andconducted meetings among peer. Approach development wif an agile mindset, strong advocate of scrum implementation. Unit testing of the fixes and enhancements. Confidential Analyst-CE Responsibilities: Involved in the complete development, testing and maintenance process of the application Developed JSP as an application controller Designed and developed HTML front end screens and validated forms using JavaScript Used Frames and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to give a better view to the Web Pages Deployed the web application on Tomcat Server Used JDBC for database connectivity Developed necessary SQL queries for database transactions Involved in testing, implementation and documentation Written Java script code for Input Validation Front End was built using JSPs, JavaScript and HTML Built Custom Tags for JSPs