SUMMARY 8.2 yearsof IT experience with 4.2 years in Adobe Experience Manager. IT experience includes technical design, business analysis, writing technical requirements, technical design documents, task allocation, coding, delivery and project release activities. Strong experience in developing WCM applications using Adobe Day CQ and CRXDE. Experience inandworked on design and implementation of modules in Adobe Experience Manager (6.0, 6.1, 6.2,6.3, 6.4), WCM, CMS, CRXDE, CRXDE Lite, OSGI Framework, JCR, Apache sling, template development, CQ5, Component Development, Architecture, Administration and installation of author and Publish instances etc. Expert in creating of Templates, Custom Components, Workflow Models/Workflows, Blueprint, Widgets Installed and configured authoring and publishing environments, replication agents. Worked on different IDEs including CRXDE Lite, Eclipse, NetBeans Experience in developing responsive web design using Bootstrap and media queries. Implemented Java &J2EE design patterns in multiple projects. Strong noledge on Adobe Marketing cloud. Good understanding of Java content repositories, sling request processing and OSGi bundles. Extensive experience in AEM, JSP and Display Tag for User Interface Development. Efficient use of various design patterns such as MVC (Model - View-Controller), Singleton, Service locator, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object), and Business Delegate in the development of distributed Enterprise Applications. Extensive experience of Front End Technologies: AJAX, JSTL, JSP, HTML, EXT JS, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS. In-depth noledge in design and development of MVC architecture using spring framework. Good noledge of web services and TEMPhas technical understanding of SOAP protocol, REST full architecture, UDDI & WSDL. Good understanding of J2EE Security framework. Having experience in configuration of SSL on Web Logic server. Expertise in developing and implementing enterprise solutions for distributed software products and applications using Java technologies. Expert in writing SQL queries with RDBMS skills in MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle, etc. Have excellent experience in application servers Apache, Tomcat, JBoss, Websphere, Web Logic and MS VISIO. Experience with Agile process methodology. In depth noledge of RUP’s Iterative Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process and Agile/Scrum Software Development Experience in usingMavenfor build automation Experience in extensively on SOA and proficient with Java/UI development using Top-Down and Bottom-Up approaches. Experience in end-user testing or acceptance testing non as User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Experience with connecting and working with third party repositories and experience in using GIT and SVN for source code control. Strong noledge on Adobe Analytics, Google Tag Manager and Adobe Dynamic Tag Manager. Extensive experience in client interaction for business requirements analysis, presentations for business and technical requirement document and functional design document. Experience in working and helping colleagues with team challenges. Excellent analytical and logical skills with strong communication skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS ECM Tools: Adobe 6.4, 6.3, 6.2, 6.1, 6.0 Languages: Java J2EE, SQL Web technologies: Servlets2.4, JSP2.0, EJB2.1, JDBC3.0, JSTL, EXTJS IDE: CRXDE lite, Eclipse, Net Beans, Adobe Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Bit bucket, TFS, RTC, GitHub, GitBlit Markup/ScriptingLanguages: HTML5, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap3, AJAX, JSON, HTL Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, Web logic, J Boss Database Applications: SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle Build and Log Tools/Version Control Tools: Maven, Jenkins, Log4j, GIT Frame Works: Spring Framework- MVC, Struts2, Apache Sling, Apache Felix Hibernate Web Services: WSDL, SOAP, RESTful services, SOA Web Servers: Apache HTTP Server, Internet Information Services Design Patterns: MVC, MVC2, session Façade, DAO, DTO, Singleton, Factory Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Boca Raton, FL AEM Developer Responsibilities: Created components using SightlyHTML Templating Language by replacing the Traditional Java Server Pages (JSP). Installed and configured version 6.3 of Adobe Experience Manager Web Content Management System and Apache Felix Admin Console. Integrated AEM with Brackets Extension to provide a smooth workflow to edit AEM components and Client Libraries. Involved in Migration planning for AEM 6.4. Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) to develop live copy from blueprint, such that the structure and content can then be used on the Live Copy. Implemented Image renditions for continuous and consistent experience of content across all devices. Integrated JIRA system with Workflow functionalities. Writing activation and deactivation workflow models using various components such as process, participant, and dynamic participant steps. Developed the application for responsiveness to different screen resolutions using Bootstrap and CSS media queries. Used SCR annotations while creating Servlets, schedulers, listeners, workflows. Implemented AEM Dev Tools to make development easier. Experienced in Day CQ and associated technologies like Sling, OSGi, Felix, JCR, and CRX. Created resourceResolver rules in Felix console by having a custom URL mapping Created custom OSGi services and Servlets using Eclipse IDE with Maven. Created AEM templates and page components with custom dialogs. Managed Users, Groups, and SystemUsersand Access Control Level (ACL) permissions. Troubleshoot of caching issues related to Dispatcher and browsers. Integrated ACS AEM Commons with AEM 6.2for Bulk oak indexing. Developed mobile site Dialog and mobile Template. Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages. Created OSGi bundles and resolved dependencies for the project. Created Custom loggers in Felix Console. Environment: AEM 6.3,6.4,HTML5, CSS3, Java (JDK 1.8), Eclipse, Maven, Log4J, Apache Felix, Apache Sling, JSP, JIRA, Web Services, SDLC, OSGi, Servlets, Sightly HTML, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Brackets, JackRabbit. Confidential, Houston, TX AEM Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for creating editabletemplates, pages, components, dialogs. Working onworkflows. Migration project from AEM 6.1 to 6.2. Performed DAM customization and custom component and features. Working on Sling models and Use classes. Creating touch UI components. Implemented principals of SOA to provide service transparency. Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system. Responsible for maintaining OSGI java classes for assets import, validation processes, and to fetch the data from CQ repository obtained from different providers. Design and build data synching tools to store information in AEM’s JCR. Built various web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery. Setup and configure authoring and publishing environments, replication agents. Used dispatcher for load balancing and caching Developed message driven web services using Spring Integration. Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath. Worked on the development of OSGI bundles Involved in testing components on framework. Involved in Unit and System Testing and Packaging and deploying application. TEMPEffectively communicate design to customers and present design options/considerations. Adopt and utilize iterative/Agile methodology as needed or requested. Environment: AEM6.1, AEM 6.2, JAVA, J2EE, OSGI, Spring Integration, HIBERNATE, MYSQL, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Bootstrap,JQuery, SQL, Jenkins, Maven, SOAP UI, XPath, XML, LINUX, JSP, Web Services (SOAP, REST), Eclipse, GIT. Confidential, Washington, D.C AEM Developer Responsibilities: End to end portal development based on wire frames/mock ups. Involved in content migration from AEM 6.0 Server monitoring and implementing automated/custom maintenance tasks. Developed highly interactive web applications utilizing AEM 6.0, Developed Adobe AEM templates and reusable components. Extensively used AEM tagging features in developing components and templates Involved in design, develop and support WCM components, integrations, and applications. Developed custom templates, components, and widgets usingAEMand integrated Components with Angular JS. Worked on Custom OSGI services, workflows, scheduler jobs development. OSGi bundle containing components is created andOSGI services are accessed from AEM components. Configured replication agent and dispatcher for caching and load balancing content personalization based on user information using segmentation. Worked on setting upAEMprojects using Maven. Implemented sling Servlets to provide Ajax handling. Implemented custom widgets using Ext JS based on the requirement. Worked on indexing the content withApachesolrand fetching the search results. Used JQuery, Angular JS to provide services to different components of portal. Provide author training to business users to familiarize them with the design and usage of the system. Git is used for version control and JIRA is used for tracking. Worked on personalization. Involved on short URL configurations Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using a CMS and Adobe CQ5. Interacting with business team for clarifications on the requirements. Analyzing and identifying the problems and fixing the issues. Environment: AEM 6.0, Java, Apache sling, Apache Felix, JCR, Web services, JSP, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, Less, JavaScript, Ext JS, Angular JS, Maven, Linux, Apache, dispatcher, JIRA, Eclipse, File Vault Confidential, Pennington, NJ JAVA Developer Responsibilities: Designed the applications using Spring MVC framework. Extensively used Spring JDBC Template to implement DAO methods. Working with ATG product catalogue. Involved in Database Design and modeling. Implemented the application using the concrete principals laid down by several design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Data Access Object, Singleton and Factory. Created Unit, Integration and System test cases for different workflows. Used Spring JDBC Prepared Statement with JDBC Template to insert and modify the data in database Developed all the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript and Ajax. Follow the best practices in coding like removing unnecessary casting, using generics in Hash Map, caching, Collections like sort, comparator, list, set and Design patterns. Used JQuery Events to manipulate the elements depends on the user interactions. Performed extensive testing for all three integrations using Unit, Integration and System test cases. Consumed and produced REST based services using Jersey. Set guidelines and timeframes and monitored the various phases of the project. Consumed Restful web service to handle Json response using Curl and Jacksonframeworks. Used WebLogic application server for deploying the application Used Maven as a build tool and integrated with Jenkins. Taken care of multi threading in back end java beans. Used SVN Version Control for Project Configuration Management Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions. Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP 2.0, Spring3, Oracle, HTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, Ajax, MS-Visio, Eclipse, UNIX,JDBC Template, LOG4J, CVS, Maven, WebLogic Server. Confidential  JAVA Developer Responsibilities: Designed the application using J2EE patterns and developed Java Beans for business logic. Developed the presentation layer using Struts Framework and Responsible for coding all the JSP, Servlets used for the Used Module. Developed the JSP, Servlets and various Beans using Websphere 5.x server. Wrote Java utility classes common for all of the applications. Designed and implemented highly intuitive, user friendly GUI from scratch using Drag and Drop with Java/ Swing and CORBA. Extensively used multithreading concepts. Deployed the jar files in the Web Container on the IBM Websphere Server 5.x. Hands-on experience in installing, configuring and deploying application on Websphere Portal Server. Designed and developed the screens in HTML with client side validations in JavaScript. Developed the server side scripts using JMS, JSP and Java Beans. Adding and modifying Hibernate configuration code and Java/SQL statements depending upon the specific database access requirements. Involved in Database design and development. Involved in SQL scripting. Involved in the system integration and testing. Design database Tables, View, Index's and create triggers for optimized data access. Developed Web Services using Apache AXIS tool. Designing of the system as per the change in requirement using Struts MVC architecture, JSP, DHTML. Environment: Java 1.2.3, Servlets 2.2, Enterprise Java Beans 1.1, SQL Server, JSP, HTML 4.0, JavaScript, UML, Weblogic 5.1, ASP .net, IIS, MTS, COM Component, Windows NT. 