SUMMARY 14+ years of experience in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and maintenance of client server, web based and distributed software applications by using Java/J2EE technologies. Extensive experience in developing JEE based Web Services to expose useful functionality to web users through SOAP, describing them using WSDL, registering them using UDDI for easy availability to potential users and consuming using Axis2 and JAX - WS. Worked on J2SE technologies like Core Java (Collections, Garbage collection, Threads and Exception Handling) and worked on J2EE like JDBC, Servlet, JSP, EJB, MDB and Webservices. Experience on OOP (Objective Oriented Programming) like Inheritance, polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation. Extensive experience in design, development and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC, MVC2) using Struts and Spring framework. Experience wif unit testing using JUnit and writing build scripts using Maven, Ant . Hands on development experience on IBM WAS 7.x & Web Logic 12c. Have performed environmental setup like migrations of teh application from Weblogic 11.1 to 12.2, Oracle 9i to 10g migration & Websphere 6.0 to 7.0. Expertise on working wif Presentation layer frameworks like JSP, HTML, JQUERY, AJAX XML, CSS and Javascript. Experience in deploying applications using Application Servers like Web Logic 8.1/9.2/10.3/12 C, Web sphere 5.1/6.1/7. Extensive hands-on experience wif Agile Scrum Methodologies. Developed J2EE applications by using teh IDE’s such as RAD and Eclipse. Experience in working wif Web Services WSDL using Restful and SOAP. Extensive experience in Service Oriented Architecture, J2EE Design Patterns, server side design patterns, Oracle. Experience in using RDBMS concepts and worked wif Oracle 8i/9i/10g Good experience in log4J implementation to persist teh data into log files and experience wif Ant, Maven and Jenkins for teh build and deployment of applications. Good Experience in usage of version controls such as VSS, PVCS, TFS and Clearcase. Have worked in Jasper Reports and Lowaige Utility (iText) for PDF Report Generation. Good in Unix Shell scripting using bash and .ksh scripts on Unix and Linux environments Participation in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding and testing. Core expertise in Logistics, Banking and Finance Domain. Was part of teh core team for Citiwealth Planner application development in teh wealth portfolio management space of Confidential . Association wif Confidential was from which included application development and maintenance in varied technical and functional landscape. Highly motivated self-starter wif a strong analytical problem solving, having ability to multi-task, work in a team environment, understand and be responsive to customer needs, work under tight deadlines and work independently and be flexible, a good listener and have strong oral and written communication skills. Willingness and ability to quickly adapt and learn new technologies. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: JDK 1.5/1.6/1.8 and PL/SQL. J2EE Technologies: Java J2SE 1.8, Servlets 2.5, JSP 2.1, JDBC, Java Beans, EJB, MDB’s, Web Services, HTML, data tables, Java Script, JQuery. Frameworks: Spring MVC, Struts, and JUnit. Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall and RAD Service Technologies: JDBC, Webservices. Data Bases: Oracle9i/10g/11g, DB2, MySQL. Application Servers: WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, Tomcat Build Tools: Ant, Maven, Jenkins IDE: Eclipse, RAD. Version Tools: SVN, VSS, TFS, PVCS,CVS Reporting Tools: Jasper Reports, Lowaige iText Operating Systems: Windows, Unix, Linux PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Paramus,NJ Sr. Java/J2ee consultant Responsibilities: Developed and implemented teh manifest process and sending of teh HAWB and MAWB messages to CBP for US Export. Developed and implemented teh shipment correction module, which allows teh mainframe to send data capture updates at shipment level. Developed and implemented shipment deletion module, which allows a particular shipment data to be deleted. Created shell scripts to pull teh manifest data and FTP it to World Customs Organization (WCO) for teh third world countries like panama. Developed and implemented teh flight status change, which would trigger message to customs (SAT/CBSA/CBP) if teh actual manifest does not happen before teh airline messages (departure/In range/ arrived) are received. Designed a new screen to provide visibility to electronic communications sent across to customs. This would basically list all teh XML communications which TEMPhas been sent or received for particular shipment or MAWB. Worked wif teh Air Cargo interface, to support additional MAWB creations for third party flights, would only trigger teh additional MAWB’s to be sent along wif teh flight message. Developed and implemented teh notification process module, which would handle teh hold/inspect generated by CBP for a shipment/package. To correct teh rejects from teh customs messages, created a service which invoked a rest Webservice which would insert teh particular shipment into IDC queue for correction. Created a service to invoke HMMS webservice to get hazmat details for a shipment and store it into regulatory database. Created Jasper reports for HAWB/MAWB/Trip details for US Export, CA and MX imports. Created a utility for performance testing 100,000 shipments using stand alone java program and unix shell script. Migrated teh application servers due to EOSL (end of server life). This needed a lot of linux/unix script changes to be done. Convered teh build scripts from ant to Maven. Created and scheduled automated builds using Jenkins Provided post implementation support and hyper care. Environment: Weblogic 12.2, Java 1.8, MDB, JAX-RS webservice, DB2, Widget based display using JQuery and Ajax, Jenkins, JAXB, core framework (Home grown framework of Confidential based on struts 2.0) Confidential, Paramus,NJ Sr. Java/J2ee consultant Responsibilities: Used Jquery Datatables to design teh GUI screens, which allows teh users to choose teh columns as well sort in which order they are to be displayed. Also it allows data on teh screen to be exported to excel. Consumed a mainframe webservice to perform teh actual moment changes to be saved into DB2. Designed and developed teh entire back end processing for moma processing using spring framework Developed a stand alone unix script, which runs periodically to refresh teh DB2 tables post MOMA operation using QUARTZ scheduler. Created and scheduled automated builds using Jenkins Provided post implementation support and hyper care. Environment: Weblogic 12.1, Java 1.8, JAX-RS webservice, DB2, JQuery,Ajax, Datatables 1.10, Sring-MVC, Jenkins Confidential, Paramus,NJ Sr. Java/J2ee consultant Responsibilities: Created and Implemented teh FPS as a restful webservice using Jersey(JAX- RS). Developed authorization using HMAC algotithm and base64 encoding. Wrote build scripts using Maven. Created and scheduled automated nightly builds using Jenkins Providing post implementation support. Environment: Weblogic 12.1, Java 1.8, JAX-RS webservice, DB2, Maven, Jenkins Confidential, Paramus,NJ Sr. Java/J2ee consultant Responsibilities: Developed and Implemented teh EDC corrections for teh suspense account. Implemented teh handshake of IDC (international data Capture) autantication through OPSYS application, by generating unique tokens,. Involved in teh development of ant scripts for teh TFS migration. Involved in teh migration of weblogic 10.3 to 12 conversion. Developed a utility program that generates emails to be sent to teh customers in case of errors in EDC shipments. Developed a utility shell script program for loading teh blocked country list and scheduled teh same using QUARTZ scheduler. Worked on creating Jasper Reports for shipment details Providing post implementation support. Environment: Weblogic 12.0, Java 1.6, J2EE, EJB,MDB’s, MQ, Web Services, JSP, Servlets, core framework (Home grown framework of Confidential based on struts 2.0), DB2 Confidential, Pleasanton, CA Team Lead, Sr. Java/J2ee Developer Responsibilities: Gathering teh requirements from teh business and preparing teh requirement document and design documents. Developed UML Models - Activity diagram, Class Diagram, Sequence Diagram. Developed and Implemented teh one link migration changes for N-CAL, NW, MAS & Hawaii regions. Migrated teh application from Websphere 6.0 to 7.0. Developed and Implemented teh WSSO integration in FDA. Developed stored procedures using cursors and triggers to migrate teh UCOA data into NCOA during one-link conversion. Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in teh database. Used Web Services for User Autantication and for teh report. SOAP based XML messages were used for communicating wif teh Web Services. Used Hibenate as teh Java Persistence API to perform all teh database transactions. Designed and developed Utility Class that generated emails to be sent to teh customers. Used Java Mail API for sending emails. Providing post implementation support. Developed teh module using Log4J to create log files to debug teh application at different levels. Used SVN for version control and Quality center for defect tracking. Used ANT for build automation. Used Shell scripting for to get teh input file from ftp server to batch server. Used putty for to deploy teh application in QA and PROD environments. Involved in code integration, daily test builds and deliveries. Involved in Quality Management (TQM) related activities. Environment: Websphere Application Server 6.0, Java 1.2, J2EE, EJB, Web Services, JSP, Servlets, Struts, EJB, PL/SQL & Oracle 10g Confidential Sr. Java/J2ee Developer Responsibilities: Analysis & Design of Business Requirements, providing teh Impact details, coding and Testing. New Work Order development adhering to teh SDLC lifecycle. Activities related to environmental setup like migration of teh application from Weblogic 6.1 to 8.1, Oracle 9i to 10g migration, housekeeping jobs, deployment, database configurations, job monitoring etc. Client Interaction. (Publishing release dates, meeting project deadline, reciprocating to user queries) To abide by teh Compliance Policies. Implementation of autantication standards in teh application. Co-ordination wif teh development team. Problem analysis, bug fixing and supporting teh User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Analysis and Implementation of change requests. Performing other presentation-related logic. End to End testing of teh application.. Deployed ear files in teh Weblogic Application Server. Implemented log4J to persist teh logging statements into log files. Post development activities. (Maintenance) Environment: JSP, Servlets, Struts, EJB, Lowaige iText, PL/SQL & Oracle 9i. Confidential Sr. Java/J2ee Developer Responsibilities: Gathering teh requirements from teh business and preparing teh requirement document and design documents. Handled teh entire back end development, for teh Citiplanner application. This involved teh development of cursors, functions, triggers & procedures for 33 modules for teh entire application. Have been a key player in teh team, interacting wif teh onsite. Problem analysis, bug fixing and supporting teh User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Involved in Quality Management (TQM) related activities. Environment: Oracle 10g & PL/SQL. Confidential Java/J2ee Developer Responsibilities: Involved in teh development of major modules in portal framework. Independently handled teh requirement gathering from teh client for few modules and developed it. Involved in teh design of teh application framework. End to End testing of teh application. Developed applications using Eclipse IDE and deployed in WebSphere server. Involved in implementation of Admin and Profile modules. Prepared and implemented unit test cases using JUnit framework for various modules and followed test-driven approach. Fixed teh bugs wifout any lagging. Environment: Bea WebLogic 8.1, Oracle 9.1, Java, JSP, JavaScript, Lowaige PDF Report. Confidential Project Trainee, Test Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in testing teh application, preparation of testing related documentation and defect reporting. Leading a testing team. Involved in Quality Management (TQM) related activities. Environment: Java1.2, J2EE, Struts, Oracle9i. Confidential Project Trainee, Test Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in testing teh application, preparation of testing related documentation and defect reporting. Involved in Quality Management (TQM) related activities. Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, VSS. 