SUMMARY JAVA developer wif 6+ years of experience in implementingJava/J2EE projects, working through Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation in Client/Server and web based n - tier architecture systems. Expertise in development and deployment of multi-tiered web based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets 2.3/2.4, JSP 1.1/2.0, Struts 2.0, JMS, Hibernate 3.0/4.0, Spring 3.0/4.0, JDBC, JNDI, IBM MQ Series, JSF, Python, MongoDB, AngularJS,JavaBeans and Web services (SOAP, Rest). Extensive experience using Spring Framework in business layer for Dependency Injection, AOP, Spring MVC, transaction management and using Hibernate as a persistence layer. Experience Front end part of the application using Angular.JS, Ext.JS, Backbone.JS, JQuery, Node.JS, React JS Html5 and CSS. Strong noledge and experience in creating web based presentation for the client using HTML5, JSP, Servlets, Ajax, JQuery, EXT JS, JSTL and JavaScript. Experience in XML related technologies like XML, DTD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, JAXB, JAXP, SAX and DOM Parsers. Knowledge of J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Factory, Abstract Factory, Command Pattern, Singleton, Session Facade, Transfer Object, Business Delegate and Data Access Object etc. Experience wif several design patterns like Singleton, Factory Method, Prototype, etc. and architectures like Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and MVC. Proficient in several frameworks like Struts 2.0,JavaServer Faces, and Hibernate 3.0/4.0 ORM, Spring Framework 3.0, spring MVC wif GUI plug-ins like Tiles Framework, validation plug-ins like Validator Framework. Proficient in using XML Suite of Technologies like XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX and DOM Parsers. Have deep understanding of both Relational Database and also experience in non-relational database like MongoDB, Elastic Search. Experience wif GWT (Google Web Toolkit). Extensive experience in SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers wif databases such as Oracle, IBM DB2 and MS SQL Server. Experienced in using WSDL, SOAP, and Apache AXIS for Web Services. Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML, CSS,JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, XML, JSF and Swing. Extensive experienced in implementing single page applications using AngularJS directives, routing modules. Expertise in advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as JQuery, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Prototype, Dojo, Node.js, Ember.js, Knockout.js, Ext.js and Underscore.js. Experience in using Maven and Ant for build automation. Have Strong experience in Database Design, Normalization, Data Flow Diagrams, Coding, Testing, Implementation, code migrations and good understanding of the complex systems. Good Experience in developing test cases wif Junit and logging wif Log4j. Hands on exposure to multiple Application Servers like BEA Web Logic Application Server, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere and JBoss. Experience in writing the scripting language Groovy which can run onJavavirtual machine. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating systems: Windows, UNIX Languages: Java SE 7, SQL, T-SQL, HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT Databases: Oracle9i, MS SQL Server 2000 and MySQL, Sybase, DB2 Data Access: JDBC, Data Source, DB Utils Web Programming: Struts, JSP, Java Script, EXT JS, Spring Web Servers: WebLogic, WebSphere, Apache and Tomcat J2EE Technologies: JSP, Struts, JSF, EJB 3.0, EMS, Servlets, JNDI, XML, XPATH. Testing Tools: JUnit, SoapUI Configuration Mgmt: CVS, Git IDE: Eclipse, IDEA IntelliJ, JDeveloper PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Greenwood Village, CO Sr.Java Developer Responsibilities: Working wif Agile Technologies, analyzing user requirements; envisioning system features and functionality Attended regular AGILE/SCRUM, meetings/ retrospective and story pointer based iteration meetings. Attended implementation meetings for the scheduled production releases immediately after the defects were fixed for the existing applications Supported the weekly calls and resolving the incident tickets in ServiceNOW. Designed the front end applications, User Interactive (UI) website pages using HTML5, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, GSP, JSP, Angular.JS and Bootstrap. The webpages were designed and supported in accordance wif the NVDA (Non-Visual Desktop Access) screen readers for visual impaired policy holders to access their Nationwide accounts. Use Core java and Spring MVC Framework for application development wifin Nationwide established framework Develop service layer using spring MVC. Use Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application. Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, Hibernate cache concepts. Use tag libraries in JSP to embed business logic. Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot. . Design, installation and configuration of ISAM 9.0.1, 9.0.2 and 9.0.3 on Dev, QA and Prod environments. Installation and configuration of end point agents and ISAM Services. Develop CSS3 based web pages which are cross-browser compatible. Implemented custom validation controls for various forms wif help of JavaScript validation controls. Create conditional logics in pages using JSP tags and JSTL. Developed the administrative UI using Angular forms and directives. Implemented pagination and sorting functionalities in different modules using JQuery plug-in. Customize the Data Access Module using DAO patterns, to handle the entire transaction wif the database. Wrote various SQL, PL/SQL queries and stored procedures for data retrieval. Wrote UNIX Shell scripts and used UNIX environment to deploy the EAR and read the logs. Created Junit test cases to test the codes and validate the release. Junit, log4j were used for unit testing and as logging frameworks Involve in developing Unit test framework using JUnit. Wrote JUnit test cases for every java class. Used Eclipse as IDE Code staging in GitHub and building in Jenkins for release night regressions Built a CI tool chain using Docker, AWS, and Github. Environment: Java, J2SE, Java Beans, Servlets, JavaScript, Struts, Axis, EJB3.0, JDBC, Oracle 10g, XML, DOM, XSD, XSL, XSLT, DHTML, Unix, Ant, Hibernate, Spring2.0, Log4J, SOAP, AJAX, JMS, Tomcat, Webservices, JUnit, MyEclipse5.1, WebLogic 8.1 Confidential, Baltimore, MD Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in study of User Requirement Specification. Scrum Agile Areas of expertise include Agile Principals, Tasking Meetings/Retrospectives, Communication Relative Estimation, Story-Based Development, Iteration/Sprint Planning Meetings and Conflict Resolution. Developed in Agile/Scrum methodology and Test Driven Development (TDD). Followed techniques and principals provided by test driven design paradigm for developing quality code. Provided Data modeling design standards, solutions to various data marts and product teams. Extensive experience in developing Unix shell scripts. Created Autosys and hell scripting to the get the vendor files from the mount and process the file data. Installed and Configured Wily Introscope and to monitor web logic servers. Used Spring MVC to consume web services and JavaScript, CSS, AngularJS to display data in front end. Developing Ant and Maven scripts to automate the compilation, deployment, and testing of Web and J2EE applications. Technology involved included, but is not limited to Java, Spring, Spring Boot, Apache Kafka, and Pivotal Cloud Foundry. Configured and built Spring MVC application on Tomcat web server. Implemented Life Quote POC using Spring, core, Spring MVC, SOAP, AJAX, and JQuery. Implemented and tested the enterprise application wif jQuery, Angular.js and Spring, MVC. Developed the application implementing MVC Architecture, integrating JSF wif Hibernate and Spring framework. Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate. Responsible for implementation of the presentation layer for the application using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, AngularJS. Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB. Worked in modern, mobile ready responsive front end development wif CSS3 media queries, AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS and jQuery. Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, Swing, JSP, JSF, JDBC, Apache Tomcat, XML, HTML, CSS, SQL, CVS, Java Script, Unix Confidential, Houston, TX Java Developer Responsibilities: Followed Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet customer expectation, timelines wif quality deliverables. Developed the User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS and NodeJS. Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using Angular JS and developed responsive Web pages using Bootstrap. Designed and developed application using Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Batch and Spring Data. Implemented logging and transaction manager using Spring AOP concept. Used Spring JPA and Spring Repository pattern extensively. Used Spring Security to provide authentication, authorization and access-control features for Application. Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot wif Spring MVC flow. Developed Restful Services using JAX-RS wif Spring Boot and Micro Service Architecture to enable Micro Services deploy on cloud. Analyze business requirements and develop various business delegates to integrate wif middleware services like JAX-WS, JAX-RS using SOAP and REST. Implemented Spring Boot application wif embedded jetty server to run the application on instance. Provided portable APIs for developing, exposing and accessing Web applications designed and implemented in compliance wif principals of REST architectural style using JAX-RS and Apache jersey. Extensively used Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions, Parallel operations on collections for TEMPeffective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API. Automated application deployment in the cloud using Docker technology using Elastic Container Service scheduler. Worked on designing specific programs efficiently through noledge of Multithreading using the API wif the goal of increasing performance on a wide variety of applications. Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations. Used Apache camel integration for routing and transforming the data between two Applications using HTTP protocol. Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking for monitoring of work assignment in the system and Log4J was used to monitor the error logs. Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along wif UNIX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs. Used Git for version control and Intellij IDE for development of the application. Environment: Java, J2SE, Java Beans, Servlets, JavaScript, Struts, Axis, EJB3.0, JDBC, Oracle 10g, XML, DOM, XSD, XSL, XSLT, DHTML, Unix, Ant, Hibernate, Spring2.0, Log4J, SOAP, AJAX, JMS, Tomcat, Webservices, JUnit, MyEclipse5.1, WebLogic 8.1 Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Designed and Developed the application using the MVC architecture Developed the connectivity to the DB using JDBC. Developed the application using JMS for asynchronous messaging. Developed the front end using swing, DHTML, AJAX, and JSP pages. Deployed the JSF Framework on IBM Websphere Application Server Developed the Action classes for handling the requests from the JSP pages. Developed Java Bean components to communicate wif Data Base. Used MVC, Value Objects, Service Locator, and Session Façade Design Patterns. Developed XML Schemas and DOM parser for all the XML documents used for data transfer and also developed XSLT code for them. Developed back end communication using JDBC. Developed and Deployed the EJB’S in Web Logic application server. Performed the Unit testing of the application. Resolved bugs coming from the System and Integration Testing. Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object persistency. Worked on the design documentation and functional specification documentation. Implemented JUnit testing. Environment: Java, J2EE, Java Beans, struts, EJB, JSF, JMS, Servlets, Javascript, CSS, AJAX, DHTML, JSP, Unix, XML, XSLT, Hibernate, Web sphere, CVS, JUnit, Oracle, Eclipse 