SUMMARY JAVA developer with 7+ years of experience in implementing Java/J2EE projects, working through Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation in Client/Server and web based n - tier architecture systems. Expertise in development and deployment of multi-tiered web based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets 2.3/2.4, JSP 1.1/2.0, Struts 2.0, JMS, Hibernate 3.0/4.0, Spring 3.0/4.0, JDBC, JNDI, IBM MQ Series, JSF, Python, MongoDB, AngularJS,JavaBeans and Web services (SOAP, Rest). Extensive experience using Spring Framework in business layer for Dependency Injection, AOP, Spring MVC, transaction management and using Hibernate as a persistence layer. Experience Front end part of teh application using Angular.JS, Ext.JS, Backbone.JS, JQuery, Node.JS, React JS Html5 and CSS. Strong knowledge and experience in creating web based presentation for teh client using HTML5, JSP, Servlets, Ajax, JQuery, EXT JS, JSTL and JavaScript. Experience in XML related technologies like XML, DTD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, JAXB, JAXP, SAX and DOM Parsers. Knowledge of J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Factory, Abstract Factory, Command Pattern, Singleton, Session Facade, Transfer Object, Business Delegate and Data Access Object etc. Experience with several design patterns like Singleton, Factory Method, Prototype, etc. and architectures like Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and MVC. Proficient in several frameworks like Struts 2.0,JavaServer Faces, and Hibernate 3.0/4.0 ORM, Spring Framework 3.0, spring MVC with GUI plug-ins like Tiles Framework, validation plug-ins like Validator Framework. Has deep understanding of both Relational Database and also experience in non-relational database like MongoDB, Elastic Search. Experience with GWT (Google Web Toolkit). Extensive experience in SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with databases such as Oracle, IBM DB2 and MS SQL Server. Experienced in using WSDL, SOAP, and Apache AXIS for Web Services. Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML, CSS,JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, XML, JSF and Swing. Extensive experienced in implementing single page applications using AngularJS directives, routing modules. Expertise in advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as JQuery, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Prototype, Dojo, Node.js, Ember.js, Knockout.js, Ext.js and Underscore.js. Experience in using Maven and Ant for build automation. Has Strong experience in Database Design, Normalization, Data Flow Diagrams, Coding, Testing, Implementation, code migrations and good understanding of teh complex systems. Good Experience in developing test cases with Junit and logging with Log4j. Hands on exposure to multiple Application Servers like BEA Web Logic Application Server, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere and JBoss. Experience in writing teh scripting language Groovy which can run onJavavirtual machine. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating systems: Windows, UNIX Languages: Java SE 7, SQL, T-SQL, HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT Databases: Oracle9i, MS SQL Server 2000 and MySQL, Sybase, DB2 Data Access: JDBC, Data Source, DB Utils Web Programming: Struts, JSP, Java Script, EXT JS, Spring Web Servers: WebLogic, WebSphere, Apache and Tomcat J2EE Technologies: JSP, Struts, JSF, EJB 3.0, EMS, Servlets, JNDI, XML, XPATH. Testing Tools: JUnit, SoapUI Configuration Mgmt: CVS, Git IDE: Eclipse, IDEA IntelliJ, JDeveloper PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Tampa, FL Sr.Java Developer Responsibilities: Working with Agile Technologies, analyzing user requirements; envisioning system features and functionality Attended regular AGILE/SCRUM, meetings/ retrospective and story pointer based iteration meetings. Attended implementation meetings for teh scheduled production releases immediately after teh defects were fixed for teh existing applications Supported teh weekly calls and resolving teh incident tickets in ServiceNOW. Designed teh front end applications, User Interactive (UI) website pages using HTML5, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, GSP, JSP, Angular.JS and Bootstrap. Teh webpages were designed and supported in accordance with teh NVDA (Non-Visual Desktop Access) screen readers for visual impaired policy holders to access their Nationwide accounts. Use Core java and Spring MVC Framework for application development within Nationwide established framework Develop service layer using spring MVC. Use Spring Web MVC framework for teh applying MVC Implementation to teh web application. Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, Hibernate cache concepts. Use tag libraries in JSP to embed business logic. Designed and developed teh REST based Microservices using teh Spring Boot. . Design, installation and configuration of ISAM 9.0.1, 9.0.2 and 9.0.3 on Dev, QA and Prod environments. Installation and configuration of end point agents and ISAM Services. Develop CSS3 based web pages which are cross-browser compatible. Implemented custom validation controls for various forms with help of JavaScript validation controls. Create conditional logics in pages using JSP tags and JSTL. Developed teh administrative UI using Angular forms and directives. Implemented pagination and sorting functionalities in different modules using JQuery plug-in. Customize teh Data Access Module using DAO patterns, to handle teh entire transaction with teh database. Wrote various SQL, PL/SQL queries and stored procedures for data retrieval. Wrote UNIX Shell scripts and used UNIX environment to deploy teh EAR and read teh logs. Created Junit test cases to test teh codes and validate teh release. Junit, log4j were used for unit testing and as logging frameworks Involve in developing Unit test framework using JUnit. Wrote JUnit test cases for every java class. Used Eclipse as IDE Code staging in GitHub and building in Jenkins for release night regressions Built a CI tool chain using Docker, AWS, and Github. Environment: Java, J2SE, Java Beans, Servlets, JavaScript, Struts, Axis, EJB3.0, JDBC, Oracle 10g, XML, DOM, XSD, XSL, XSLT, DHTML, Unix, Ant, Hibernate, Spring2.0, Log4J, SOAP, AJAX, JMS, Tomcat, Webservices, JUnit, MyEclipse5.1, WebLogic 8.1 Confidential, Dallas, TX Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in study of User Requirement Specification. Scrum Agile Areas of expertise include Agile Principles, Tasking Meetings/Retrospectives, Communication Relative Estimation, Story-Based Development, Iteration/Sprint Planning Meetings and Conflict Resolution. Developed in Agile/Scrum methodology and Test Driven Development (TDD). Followed techniques and principles provided by test driven design paradigm for developing quality code. Provided Data modeling design standards, solutions to various data marts and product teams. Extensive experience in developing UNIX shell scripts. Created Autosys and hell scripting to teh get teh vendor files from teh mount and process teh file data. Installed and Configured Wily Introscope and to monitor web logic servers. Used Spring MVC to consume web services and JavaScript, CSS, AngularJS to display data in front end. Developing Ant and Maven scripts to automate teh compilation, deployment, and testing of Web and J2EE applications. Technology involved included, but is not limited to Java, Spring, Spring Boot, Apache Kafka, and Pivotal Cloud Foundry. Configured and built Spring MVC application on Tomcat web server. Implemented Life Quote POC using Spring, core, Spring MVC, SOAP, AJAX, and JQuery. Implemented and tested teh enterprise application with jQuery, Angular.js and Spring, MVC. Developed teh application implementing MVC Architecture, integrating JSF with Hibernate and Spring framework. Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate. Responsible for implementation of teh presentation layer for teh application using HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, AngularJS. Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB. Worked in modern, mobile ready responsive front end development with CSS3 media queries, AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS and jQuery. Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, Swing, JSP, JSF, JDBC, Apache Tomcat, XML, HTML, CSS, SQL, CVS, Java Script, Unix Confidential, Houston, TX Java Developer Responsibilities: Followed Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet customer expectation, timelines with quality deliverables. Developed teh User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS and NodeJS. Implemented different validation control on teh web-pages using Angular JS and developed responsive Web pages using Bootstrap. Designed and developed application using Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Batch and Spring Data. Implemented logging and transaction manager using Spring AOP concept. Used Spring JPA and Spring Repository pattern extensively. Used Spring Security to provide authentication, authorization and access-control features for Application. Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot with Spring MVC flow. Developed Restful Services using JAX-RS with Spring Boot and Micro Service Architecture to enable Micro Services deploy on cloud. Analyze business requirements and develop various business delegates to integrate with middleware services like JAX-WS, JAX-RS using SOAP and REST. Implemented Spring Boot application with embedded jetty server to run teh application on instance. Provided portable APIs for developing, exposing and accessing Web applications designed and implemented in compliance with principles of REST architectural style using JAX-RS and Apache jersey. Extensively used Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions, Parallel operations on collections for TEMPeffective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API. Automated application deployment in teh cloud using Docker technology using Elastic Container Service scheduler. Worked on designing specific programs efficiently through knowledge of Multithreading using teh API with teh goal of increasing performance on a wide variety of applications. Developed teh persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created teh POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations. Used Apache camel integration for routing and transforming teh data between two Applications using HTTP protocol. Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking for monitoring of work assignment in teh system and Log4J was used to monitor teh error logs. Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with UNIX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs. Used Git for version control and Intellij IDE for development of teh application. Environment: Java, J2SE, Java Beans, Servlets, JavaScript, Struts, Axis, EJB3.0, JDBC, Oracle 10g, XML, DOM, XSD, XSL, XSLT, DHTML, Unix, Ant, Hibernate, Spring2.0, Log4J, SOAP, AJAX, JMS, Tomcat, Webservices, JUnit, MyEclipse5.1, WebLogic 8.1 Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Designed and Developed teh application using teh MVC architecture Developed teh connectivity to teh DB using JDBC. Developed teh application using JMS for asynchronous messaging. Developed teh front end using swing, DHTML, AJAX, and JSP pages. Deployed teh JSF Framework on IBM Websphere Application Server Developed teh Action classes for handling teh requests from teh JSP pages. Developed Java Bean components to communicate with Data Base. Used MVC, Value Objects, Service Locator, and Session Façade Design Patterns. Developed XML Schemas and DOM parser for all teh XML documents used for data transfer and also developed XSLT code for them. Developed back end communication using JDBC. Developed and Deployed teh EJB’S in Web Logic application server. Performed teh Unit testing of teh application. Resolved bugs coming from teh System and Integration Testing. Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object persistency. Worked on teh design documentation and functional specification documentation. Implemented JUnit testing. Environment: Java, J2EE, Java Beans, struts, EJB, JSF, JMS, Servlets, Javascript, CSS, AJAX, DHTML, JSP, Unix, XML, XSLT, Hibernate, Web sphere, CVS, JUnit, Oracle, Eclipse 