SUMMARY Over 8+ years of professional software development experience, consulting for major financial and business institutions in teh U.S. and India. Servlets, Subversion, RMI, JNDI, JMS, JSF, JBPM, EJB (Session Beans, MDB) Experience of enterprise level application development with Java centric technologies in teh domain of Banking and Insurance, Healthcare. Extensive experience working in a Test - Driven Development and Agile-Scrum Development. Developed UI/UX and JEE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, Seam, Net beans, and J Builder, J Developer, RAD, Sublime Text. IBM's Rational Delivery Platform extensive experience with Spring framework of IBM Proprietary Framework with using tolls of Rational Clear Case & Quest with RUP Method. Extensive experience in Creating & Consuming Web Services in Maven Project /Dynamic Web Project/ EAR Project with SOAP 2.2/Axis 3.0, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RPC SOAP JAX WS2.x, Restful JAX-RS, Jersey 1.8/1.9, Jackson, Spring 3.0. Extensive experience in PL/SQL and database server Firebird SQL. Extensive experience in using JSON, XML, XSL, XSLT, Crystal Reports, SOAP, WSDL, HTML and DHTML. Around 4+ years of Professional Pythondevelopment experience using Python, Django framework. Firm understanding of Agile (TDD) using Flex Unit and J Unit, logging using log4j, and debugging and profiling using teh eclipse IDE. Experience with model 2 technologies using Spring MVC, EAD4J MVC, Spring Batch, data modelling and ORM using Hibernate persistence provider. Strong exposure to Web 2.0 client technologies using JSP, JSTL, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX. Strong experience in built Maven Based Projects and use POM file for create complete clean Project Documentation with POM file in Maven. Experienced in developing and deploying applications on Oracle Glassfish, BEA Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat servers. Experienced in database systems like Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, MySQL, and MS SQL Server server to manage tables and created views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, and triggers for teh fast retrieval and manipulation of data. Experienced writing Use cases, sequence diagrams and class diagrams with UML tools like Visio, Rational Rose for business modelling. Expert knowledge of, and strong hands on experience with AJAX frameworks (Ext-JS/DOJO) and JavaScript libraries. Hands on experience in building and deploying tools like ANT and MAVEN as well as version control using SVN/Subversion, Rational Clear Case, CVS and VSS. Experience with Frameworks like Spring, Distributed Architecture, Soir, SOA etc. Experienced in using Flex based Remote Object, SOAP based Web services & HTTP service. Experience in using testing Tools JUnit, Selenium, Cucumber/Gherkin. Experience using an Integrated Development Environment like Eclipse, RAD 7.5/8.5 for code development. Versatile team player with good communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: C, C++, Java 8(JSP, Servlets, JSTL, and other java related technologies), Python, R Operating Systems: Windows (10/8.1), Ubuntu, Mac Scripting languages: HTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, JSON, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSP, JSTL. Databases: Oracle, MySQL, MSSQL Server, Sybase, PostgreSQL, MongoDB. IDE: Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD) Messaging Technologies: JMS, AMQP. Version controls: SVM, GitHub, RStudio, Spyder, Octave GUI,KNIME, Coggle. Web Servers: JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere, Tomcat, Jetty, Apache Frameworks: Spring (MVC, AOP, ORM, Web Service, DAO, Social, Security, etc.), Hibernate ORM 5.0.2, Bootstrap, Struts, Tiles, DWR (Direct Web Remoting) Reporting Tools: Jasper Reports, BIRT, Crystal Reports. Other Tools: JIRA, Confluence, Bamboo, Sonar, Fisheye, Taiga.io, GitHub, AEM. Database Tools: SQL Developer, DB Artisan, TOAD, MSSQL Server Management Studio XML Technologies: DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XML-RPC and XML Beans. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, New Jersey Full Stack Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Full stack development based on JEE specifications and Spring Framework with MVC architecture. Developed using web based technologies such as Hibernate ORM and Web Services (REST /SOA /microservices). Implemented different design patterns such as singleton, Session Façade, Factory, MVC, Business delegate, session facade and DAO design patterns. Used JPA (Object Mapping for teh backend data persistency). Worked with tracking tool JIRA on Agile Scrum performance estimation and capacity planning work with teh project manager and product development teams to create and implement projects. Development of front end web pages using JSP2.0, JSON, Angular JS, JS Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and Spring TLD. Worked on cloud based applications implementing a service-oriented-architecture (SOA). Tested code using TDD approach to development which combines test-first development where you write a test before you write just enough production code to full fill dat test and refactoring. Used LDAP and Microsoft active directory series and built interfaces for teh same. Developed using Maven build scripts to automate teh deployment to various Web Server. Configured Oracle WebLogic Server forms part of Oracle Fusion Middleware portfolio which supports Oracle, and other JDBC-compliant databases. Worked with Adobe Flex to create expressive and interactive interfaces. Oracle WebLogic Server Process Edition configuration also includes Business Process Management and Data Mapping functionality. Used GIT for source control and developed a logging component using Log4J to log messages and errors. Involved in resolving bugs post production and resolved performance issues and participated in code reviews. Worked on relational databases and wrote SQL scripts to manage teh database. Involved in a full life cycle Object Oriented application development - Object Modeling, Database Mapping, GUI Design. Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing teh functionality. Developed Functional Requirement Document based on users' requirement. Experienced with Flex framework for building and maintaining web applications. Monitored teh error logs using Log4J and fixing teh problems. Environment: Java 8, JSP, JMS, AJAX, Log4j, jQuery, RESTful web services, JSON, XML, JAX-WS, Apache CXF, AngularJS, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, EJB, ANT, JUnit, ECLIPSE LUNA, GIT, and Oracle, MongoDB. Confidential, California Full Stack Java Developer Responsibilities: Developed new architectural design solutions, functional and technical requirement specifications, use cases, non-functional requirements and provide expertise to technical and functional efforts, teams, and projects with full stack development. Designed new UML diagrams through Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence, components, activity. Identified scenarios and strategies for performance testing and collaborate with test team on execution. Created SOA systems architecture and high level design for scalable and high performance enterprise applications. Established relationships and lead/direct technical development teams for SOA based design, architecture, development, and testing. Created Architecture enhancements for Distributed JEE applications and legacy integration with Mainframes applications. Implemented business logic in Python to achieve reduced unplanned downtime by predicting equipment issues before thy occur Involved in teh application development using Spring Core, MVC modules and Java web based technologies: such as, Servlets, JSP, Java Web Service (REST/SOAP based), WSDL. Worked on Backbone views with declarative event handling which connects it all to teh existing API over a RESTful JSON interface. Implemented different design patterns such as singleton, business factory and J2EE design patterns such as Business delegate, session façade and DAO design patterns. Developed teh HTTP based Web Service Client which calls up teh existing web service to get teh application related data which comes in XML format. Used Hibernate - Object Relational Mapping Tool for teh backend data persistency. Created a spring container file for configuring Hibernate and to perform Dependency injection among all bean class involved in business logic operation. Performed estimation and capacity planning work with teh project manager and product development teams to create and implement projects. Used Struts and JSTL tag libraries in teh JSP pages. Executed all teh web service test scenarios by using SOAPUI. Automated test cases with SOAP UI and Groovy scripting. Entire Backend and frontend modules are developed in Python on Django Web Framework. Developed front end web pages using JSP2.0, JSON, Angular JS, CSS, JavaScript. Developed Maven build scripts to automate teh deployment to various Web Servers. Developed WebSphere Portal products to give users a single point of access to teh applications, services, information, and social connections they need. Environment: UML, OOAD, Agile/SCRUM, GOF Patterns, SOA Patterns, EAI Patterns, RSA, MS Visio, Java 7, JSP, Droplets, jQuery, MySQL, Angular JS, JSON, Dynamo Servlets, JDBC, Struts1.1, ATG 9.0, XML, Tomcat, EJB, JMS, Oracle 10g, Linux, Maven, XML, Web Services (SOAP, Rest full), Soap UI, Splunk, Jenkins. Confidential Full Stack Java Developer Responsibilities: Worked on gathering system requirements for teh application, working with teh business team to review teh requirements in teh software requirement specification document, architecture document followed by other phases of Software Development Life Cycle. Designed and developed systems based on JEE specifications and used Spring Framework with MVC architecture. Used Spring Roo Framework Design/Enterprise Integration patterns and REST architecture compliance for design and development of applications. Experienced in using various programming languages like Python, C and C++. Involved in teh application development using Spring Core, Spring Roo, Spring JEE, Spring Aspects modules and Java web based technologies such as Web Service (REST /SOA /microservices) including microservices implementations and Hibernate ORM. Used LDAP and Microsoft active directory series for authorization and authentication services. Implemented different design patterns such as singleton, Session Façade, Factory, and MVC design patterns such as Business delegate, session façade and DAO design patterns. Used JPA - Object Mapping for teh backend data persistency. Worked on Agile Scrum performance estimation and capacity planning work with teh project manager and product development teams to create and implement projects. Used Struts and JSTL in teh JSP pages. Tested teh code using TDD approach to development which combines test-first development where you write a test before you write just enough production code to full fill dat test and refactoring. Developed front end web pages using JSP2.0, JSON, jQuery, Angular JS, CSS, JavaScript and SPRING TLD. Experienced in working with various PythonIntegrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse, PyDev and Sublime Text. Developed Maven build scripts to automate teh deployment to various Web Servers. Developed groovy script for automation test cases. Configured Tomcat server which gave users a single point of access to teh applications, services, information and social connections they need. Wrote SQL scripts to manage databases. Environment: Java, JSP, Tiles, Uniface, Soap Web Services, PL SQL, SDLC, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Oracle 11g, CVS, Windows XP, Eclipse, RAD (Rational Application Developer), Toad, SQL Developer, putty, WinSCP, Rallydev, Apache, Tomcat. Confidential, Winston-Salem, NC Java/J2EE developer Responsibilities: Participating in system design, planning, estimation and implementation. Involved in developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for teh modules using UML and Rational Rose. Developed teh presentation layer using JSP,AJAX, HTML, XHTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript. Developed and implemented teh MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework. Effective usage of J2EE Design Patterns Namely Session Facade, Factory Method, Command and Singleton to develop various base framework components in teh application. Modified Account View functionality to enable display of blocked accounts details dat have tags. dis involved modifying beans, JSP changes and middle tier enhancements. Developed various EJBs (session and entity beans) for handling business logic. Developed Session Beans and DAO classes for Accounts and other Modules. Worked on generating teh web services classes by using WSDL, UDDI and SOAP. Consumed Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and UDDI from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers. Involved in Units integration using JUnit, bug fixing, and User acceptance testing with test cases. Used CVS for version control and Maven as a build tool. Environment: JDK, Servlets, JSP, Spring, HTML, XHTML, XSLT, JDBC, EJB, Oracle 10g, JBoss, Eclipse, Maven, Agile development process, WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, JAXB, CVS, PL/SQL, Rational ClearQuest, JUnit, Windows XP and Log4j Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Developed teh J2EE application based on teh Service Oriented Architecture. Involved in design and development of workflow and support. Used Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade and DAO. Developed using new features of Java 1.7 annotations, generics, enhanced for loop and enums. Used Spring IOC, AOP and Hibernate ORM for back end tiers. Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access to make valid transactions. Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes. Configured and build Asynchronous communication with JMS services with MQ Series. Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans. Worked on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers and sending them mails about different policies. Used JMS for teh asynchronous exchange of critical data and events among J2EE components. Publisher-Subscriber method was used for data loading and Point-To-Point method of JMS was used for event processing. Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database. Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, cache concepts. Modified teh Spring Controllers and Services classes to support teh introduction of Spring framework. Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations. Developed screens using jQuery, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax and Ext JS. Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations. Developed screens using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX. Developed various EJB components to full fill teh business functionality. Used XStream API to transfer data back and forth between Spring MVC and Ext JS, Node JS. Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in teh application. Developed teh presentation layer and GUI framework in JSP and Client-Side validations were done. Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Axis. Developed REST web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services. Designed and developed custom message adapter components dat allowed message to travel through IBM MQ Series XML Beans and JMS. Exposed teh Web Services to teh client applications by sharing teh WSDL's. Created logical and physical data models putting to practice, concepts of normalization and RDBMS. Used Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development. Database development - created new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce teh response time in teh application. Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues with a quick turnaround time. Created properties files and used enhanced JTable for improved general performance. Used Rational Application Developer which is based on Eclipse, to develop and debug application code. Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, Angular JS, jQuery and Java script. Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs. Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application. SVN was used for project management and version management. Deployed teh application on WebSphere 7.0 application server. Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.x, jQuery, JSON, JSF, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, AJAX, Web Services, SOAP, XML, Java Beans, XStream, Apache POI, Ext JS, jQuery, Restful, JavaScript, Oracle 11g, IBM RAD, WebSphere 7.0, EJB 2.1, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, SVN, Apache Maven, JUnit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML. Confidential Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams and Class Diagrams in UML using Rational Rose As a team member involved in Development using JSP, Servlets and an internal tool called Content Management to organize teh JSPs created. Provide a login screen for teh employees with validation, added client-side validations using java script and server-side validation using Struts Validator Framework. Developed Add/Edit KYC Details, Enhanced KYC, Risk Score/EDD and Comments modules using J2EE architecture in Spring MVC Framework by implementing MVC model, which included invocation of Web Services/EJB for integration with external system. Used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI. Used Rational Clear Case for version control and log4j for logging purposes. Designed WSDL's and elaborated type of definitions; schemas based on corporate standards, integration and security specifications Tracked errors or unexpected results/bugs with Bugzilla and coordinated with halp desk staff. Maintained version control using VSS. Performed Unit Test using Junit, Integration Testing, and System Testing. Implemented Multi-threading concepts. Developed test cases for Unit testing using JUnit and performed integration and system testing Involved in coding for teh presentation layer using Struts Framework, JSP, AJAX, XML, XSLT and JavaScript. Environment: Java / J2EE, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Servlets, Hibernate, Spring, XML, EJB, Web Services, SOAP, Eclipse, Rational Rose, Oracle,HTML, XPATH, XSLT, DOM and JDBC. 