SUMMARY .NET consultant around 7 years of experience in IT with expertise & exposure to all the stages in software development life cycle including requirements gathering, software design, development and testing/support using Microsoft Technologies. Extensive experience with Microsoft.NetTechnologies (.NETFramework, MS Visual Studio .NET, ASP.NET, ADO .NET,C#.NET, Windows Services, LINQ, Web Services/WCF), Entity Framework and various object relational databases (SQL Server, Oracle, Couch DB). Experienced in Object Oriented Programming and OO Design Patterns. Worked in Water Fall and Agile scrum methodology. Involved in Client Interaction meetings and in co - coordinating releases with multiple teams. Developed GUI using Web based (Web Forms, ASP.NET, WPF) application development usingC#. Worked on Web applications using MVC 3.0/4.0/5.0. Experienced in consuming and developing ASP.NET, WCF Web Services using Simple Object Access Protocol, developing Service Oriented Architecture SOA based services. Developed services using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF)and used ASMX web services. Developed applications using .NETapplication building blocks (Data access, Exception Handling, State management) Working experience with JAVASCRIPT, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, HTML Strong analytical and programming skills with proven track record in creating elegant, flexible and maintainable solutions as per Business Requirements. Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing and Functional testing using MOQ/NUNIT framework. Working noledge in configuration and version management using Visual Source Safe (VSS), Clear-Case, Subversion (SVN), Team Foundation Server (TFS 2010),GIT, MKS, Perforce and Rational Team Concert (RTC). Involved in code review with team using Collaborator. Extensively used Data Reader and Datasets in ADO.Netto retrieve, display, edit and update data in the database. Experienced with LINQ and Entity Framework. Well-versed noledge in SQL, T-SQL, stored procedures, functions, cursors, triggers, views, joins using SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014. Working experience with SSRS and SSIS Good Knowledge in designing Use-Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Interaction diagrams (Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams and Collaboration diagrams) using Designer tools like MS Visio. Good understanding of technology with focus on delivering business solutions. Comprehensive problem solving abilities, excellent verbal and written communication skills, Interpersonal Skills and Leadership Qualities. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: C#, VB.Net, JavaScript, JQuery .Net Technologies: ADO.Net, ASP.Net 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.6 , ASP.NET MVC, .Net Framework 1.1/2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0 , WCF Web Services, WPF, LINQ, Entity Framework, Auto Mapper, SpecFlow, MOQ, Nunit Web Technologies: XML, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, WSDL, UDDI, CSS, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, SignalR Databases: MS-SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012 , MS Access 97/2000, TSQL Other tools: Visual Studio 2005/2008/2010/2013/2015/2017 , Microsoft Visio and Collaborator Web Servers: IIS 5.0/6.0/7.0 Versioning Tools: Visual SourceSafe(VSS), Subversion(SVN), Team Foundation Server (TFS), Perforce and MKS Source Code Control: TFS, Visual Source Safe (VSS), GIT, Rational Team Concert, Perforce and MKS Operating Systems: Windows Win7/Win10/Vista/XP/NT/Server 2000/2003/2008 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Carmel, IN Software Developer Responsibilities: As Agile team member, we were responsible for Product backlogs, Story grooming sessions, releasing planning, Spring planning, stand ups, Retrospective meetings and demos. Planning the development for sprint planning and task creation and task assignment. Experience working in agile development environment and Test Driven development. Experience with Cloud based Loan Origination web application. Experience with HTC web UI controls. Worked with MTC Integrity source control. Used Trello for Story/task tracking. Worked with SAP to deal with business objects. Used SSIS to created packages for reporting database. Used JavaScript for client side scripting and validation. Used SQL server 2014 as backend database and worked on Functions, Stored procedures and views. Worked with DevExpress to integrate HTML editor in to the application and customized DevExpress controls as needed. Worked with HMDA data to make them reportable in case of mortgage loan to Federal Reserve board. Used Cruise Control for automation build and deploy. Experience dealing with credit report, Risk management data. Worked on Statement analyzer tool enhancements to generate reports different reports. Environment: ASP.Net 4.6, SQL server 2014, JavaScript, DevExpress, JQuery, C#, HTC controls, Visual studio 2012/2017, IIS, Azure, C#, Windows 10, MKS, Trello, Cruise Control, SAP Confidential, Barrington, IL .Net Developer Responsibilities: As Agile team member, we were responsible for Product backlogs, Story grooming sessions, releasing planning, Spring planning, stand ups, Retrospective meetings and demos. Planning the development for sprint planning and task creation and task assignment. Experience working in agile development environment and Test Driven development. Creating unit test cases using MOQ framework and NCrunch. Development with .Net MVC, JavaScript, Web API, WPF, WCF, LINQ, Couch DB. Experience with JavaScript by using in web version of Connect application. Experience with designing UI using Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) and C#. Experience in using MVVM pattern with WPF. Used AutoMapper to map web objects to domain level objects. Worked on WCF services to broadcast data from fetal monitor to client machine. Experience with writing automation tests for UI using SpecFlow. Code review and pair programming using Collaborator. Version management, continuous Builds and release using Jenkins. Worked on Couch DB database to store/retrieve configuration for Connect application. Used Spring.net for Inversion of control (Dependency injection). Hosted Web Api’s using NancyFx framework. Check for FxCop warnings and fix them. Environment: ASP.Net 4.6, MVC, C#, Web APIs, jQuery, Couch DB, WPF, JavaScript, Perforce, WCF, White automation, Jenkins, Postman, Snoop, Patmos, IIS, NancyFx, RestSharp, Spring.net, Caliburn Confidential, Bluffton, SC .Net Developer Responsibilities: Used Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet customer expectations, timeline with quality deliverables. Worked on MVC 4.0/5.0 applications to build the UI layer Developed OWIN hosted windows services. Used Top shelf to host windows services. Used Common Logging, Log4Net to log all the exceptions, warnings to a text file. Used Swagger UI for documenting REST API. Implemented Client Side scripting using JQuery and used Entity Framework extensively to manipulate, retrieval and store data. Used EnterpriseService Bus (ESB) for designing and implementing communication between mutually interacting software applications in aService Oriented Architecture (SOA) Developed the UI (user interface) using ASP.NET, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery and Telerik controls Used AngularJS for creating the controllers, Factories, Services, Custom Directives and JSON to pass the JavaScript objects from server to web application. Design and implement Restful API layer along with calls to consume an API layer. Developed strongly typed Views and Action Filters in MVC 5.0 as per the business requirements. Implemented Caching and State Management strategies to improve overall performance of the application. Implemented Data access layer using Entity Framework6.x Database First approach Implemented Inversion of Control (Dependency Injection) using Spring.net and Unity. Used IBM Rational Team Concert (RTC) for Sprints planning and Incidents tracking. Used SignalR as a middleware to communicate between Web Client and Windows Service. Involved in creating the database schema and table structures in various cycles using SQL Server 2012 Involved in integration of applications and maintained versions using TFS (Team Foundation Server) & GIT Created WCF services responsible for communicating and providing user information from server to the client Created tables, functions, stored procedures, views for data manipulation, ensuring set up relations includes indexing, constraints, and foreign keys in SQL server. Optimizing stored procedures and tuning/performance SQL server. Created .CSS style sheets for designing the layout of the GUI screens Created the project related diagrams using Microsoft Visio 2003 Involved in Unit Testing and Integration Testing of the entire application Involved in the design and analysis of the project & gathering requirements from the end clients Designed and Developed GUI for all the modules in a separate Business Layer by using ASP.NET&C#.NET Environment: Visual Studio.Net 2012/2013/2015 , ASP.NET, Restful Web Services, ASP.NET MVC 4.0/5.0, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, WCF, C#, T-SQL, JavaScript, CSS, HTML 5, XML, SQL SERVER 2012, Telerik Controls, JQuery, Microsoft Visio 2003, AngularJS, TFS, GIT, SSRS, Dependency Injection, ESB, SOA, SignalR, Log4Net, Swagger UI Confidential .Net Developer Responsibilities: Developed UML Diagrams using MS Visio Involved in Business Analysis and Development of Application Created and consumed WCF services in the Service layer. Developed SOA Application using Services layer, Business Logic Layer, Presentation Layer and Database Layer. Extensively used Master Pages to achieve consistent look and feel of the web site. Implemented Authentication in ASP.NET application Involved in developing Web Services and invoking them by using XML, SOAP and WSDL for creating proxy classes. Created event driven Web Forms using ASP.NETand implemented form validation using Validation controls using both Custom validation and JavaScript was written for Client side validations. Worked on SQL Server 2008 to access the database in an efficient manner using ADO.NET. Used ADO.NETobjects, Dataset, Data Table, Data Relations and Data Adapter for manipulating, retrieving, storing and displaying data from SQL Server 2008 Data Source. Extensively used Data binding concept to display the required data. Involved in creating stored procedures, triggers, and views in SQL Server 2005 for data manipulation and retrieval using T-SQL. Created and Updated Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers. Performed Unit testing using NUNIT. Used VSS as repository purpose. Developed Reports using SSRS in MSSQL Server 2008 Environment: .NET 2.0/3.0, ASP.NET2.0/3.0, C# 3.0, NUnit, Visual Studio 2005/2008, MS SQL Server 2005, IIS 6.0, WCF, LINQ, Crystal Reports, VSS, AJAX, ADO.NET, XML, SOAP, XAML, SSRS, T-SQL, Visual SourceSafe 6.0 