SUMMARY 5 years of IT experience, worked in all phases of software development including analysis, design, development, documentation, implementing and testing of software systems in Java andJ2EE technologies. Worked extensively in Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, ANT, Log4J, JUnit, JavaScript, and XML. Object - oriented analysis, design, and development experience Expertise in client-side design and validations using HTML, DHTML, CSS, AngularJS, JavaScript, JSP, and Bootstrap. Expertise in MVC architecture Web Framework Struts 1.x/2.x, Spring 3.x (Dependency Injection, Aspect Oriented programming, Data Access Objects, MVC Framework and Spring Web Flow) and ORM framework Hibernate (3.0). Experience in Web Services Development using RESTful webservices. Worked extensively in consuming and developing REST and SOAP webservices In depth understanding of Java design patterns such singleton, Factory. Having programming experience with SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers, Functions, Stored Procedures, and Cursors for teh databases. Experience with Databases like Oracle 10g/11g, MYSQL. Experienced in developing Java applications using development tools like Eclipse,NetBeans and RAD (Rational Application Developer). Expertise in using J2EE Application Servers such as JBoss 4.2, Web Logic 8.1/9.2, Web sphere 5.0.x/5.1.x/6.x and Web Servers such as Tomcat 6.x/7.x. Experienced in building tool Gradle,Maven, ANT and logging tool Log4J. Experience in Software Configuration Management using Version Control tools CVS, SVN, Git and responsible for Various software version releases. Experienced in working with Iterative Agile Programming Methodologies, Waterfall methodologies, Scrum and Test-driven development (TDD). Hands on experience in Unit testing and Module testing using JUnit Ability to work in a fast-paced, high-effort, dynamic work environment, with good presentation, problem-solving skills and committed to learn new technologies. Very good team player and can work under minimum supervision. TECHNICAL SKILLS J2EE: JSP, Servlets2.4/2.5, JDBC 4.0/3.0, Spring, Hibernate,Log4j,SOAP,Restfull Webservices Web Technologies: JSP 1.2/2.x, HTML 4/5, DHTML, CSS, Java Script,AngularJS Languages: Java, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL Frameworks: spring 2.x/3.0, Hibernate 3.x/4.x Server: Web Logic 8.1/9.2/11g/12c and Tomcat 6.0/7.0, JBoss 4.2, WebSphere6.x/7.x/8.x Database & Tools: MySQL, Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g and 11g IDE’s: Eclipse 3.x/4.x, Net Beans, RAD Source Control: CVS, SVN, GIT Development methodologies Testing & Deployment: Agile Methodology, Waterfall Methodology, TDD, JUnit 3.0/4.x, ANT, Maven PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Virginia Java Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for designing, building, testing and supporting Java applications. me'm primarily involved in developing web-based user friendly interfaces dat meet customer and client requirements. Worked in Agile development environment and used RALLY to update day-to-day status. Worked in a structured development environment with build & configuration management tools (Maven & Hudson). Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and AOP. Responsible for testing, debugging, bug fixing and documentation of teh system. Developed JUnit test cases and performed integration and system testing. Implemented Java components and deployed under teh Web Logic server. Experience in creating a Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) request and making a WSDL call. Consumed SOAP based web services by generating client stubs from WSDL file. Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications (internal and third party components using RESTFul services. Used JAXB to marshal and unmarshal teh xml-java object, java objects-xml and used Jackson objectmapper to createJSONfromJavaobjects and to create java object from JSON. Used JAX-RS jersey implementation for Restful web services. Wrote scripts to update teh data in Oracle Database.Written SQL queries & PL SQL - Stored procedures, functions, triggers, cursors, sequences, andindexes. In charge to provide code & analysis relative to assignments, and performing unit testing on applicable code using SOAP UI. Working with Java 8 lambda expressions and functional interfaces. Working with java 8 forEach method in iterable interface. Used log4j to capture teh log dat includes runtime exceptions and debug. Involved in coding, testing and creation of functional specs of enhancement application. Performing Code reviews with teh team. Create RFP (Request for Proposal) microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing SpringBoot. Preparing builds, deploy and Co-ordinate with teh release management team to ensure dat teh proper process is followed during teh release. Involve in DAO Data Access Objects to retrieve data from database Providing End to End support for teh testing activities during System Testing, UAT. Maintain EAR and WAR in IBM Web Sphere Apps server. Maintain source code using SVN. Created detailed design documents using UML (like Use case, Class, Sequence, and Component diagrams) using Rational Rose. Developing teh application using Core Java Threading and Collections and ExceptionalHandling. Leveraged AngularJS sources for data access. Created custom directives, factories, services for re-usable components Created AngularJS custom reusable self-contained testable modules, controllers, directives and service to implement teh functionalities. Preparing technical documentation of teh application. Responsible for closing teh backlog of production related issues. Used Kafka as a buffering storage between Oracle and Couchbase database. Responsible for effective communication between teh project team and teh customer. Provide day to day direction to teh project team and regular project status to teh customer. Review system requirements, establish specific solutions, and leading teh efforts including programming and testing dat culminate in client acceptance of teh results. Interacting with teh clients for teh new enhancements to be done. Implemented business tier using Spring IOC, AOP, MVC and Spring Boot. Preparing technical documentation of teh application. Involved in ORM mappings for associations, Inheritance & fetching strategy, performing CRUD operations and managing second level cache using Hibernate. Used SonarQube for code analysis and quality of teh code. Responsible for effective communication between teh project team and teh customer. Provide day to day direction to teh project team and regular project status to teh customer. Interacting with teh clients for teh new enhancements to be done. Environment: jdk1.6 &1.7, J2SE, J2EE, Spring Framework, Weblogic, Hibernate, Eclipse, Maven, Oracle, SOAP UI, SQL, Hudson, Sonarqube, Putty, Gradle, SOAP, REST, Log4j, GIT Hub and Tortoise SVN/GIT. Confidential, Phoenix,AZ Java Developer Responsibilities: Worked on two different modules in parallel, using SCRUM (Agile) development environment with tight schedules. Implementing RESTful webservices using Spring 3.0, which supports JSON data, formats. Consuming RESTful webservices using jquery Ajax. Rewritten existing struts application to Spring. Implemented persistency layer using Hibernate Framework (ORM) and integrating with spring service layer. Developed code for obtaining bean references in Spring IOC framework. Focused primarily on teh MVC components such as Dispatcher Servlet, Controllers, Model and View Resolver. Involved in creating teh Hibernate POJO Objects and utilizing Hibernate Annotations. Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, and technique of mapping data. Supporting production issues and identified production problems. Implemented service layer and transaction layer using Spring framework. Worked extensively on creating rich front-end web interface using HTML/CSS, JSTL, JavaScript, jQuery. UsedLog4jto print teh logging, debugging, warning, info on teh server console. Unit testing teh application using Junitframework. Deployed Application on WebSphere server. Source Control Management using SVN and CVS. Interacted with testing team to fix defects. Involved in bug fixes, enhancements and code refactoring. Environment: Hibernate 3.6, Spring 3.0, Restful web services, Struts2.0, WebSphere Server 8.5, Junit, Log4j, Ant, Html 5, Jsp, JQuery, JUnit, JDK 1.7, RAD IDE. Software Engineer Confidential Responsibilities: Designed and developed an interactive module in Java Used JavaScript extensively for performing client side validations and for enhancing teh current functionality of teh screens. Worked on query handling, customer support, halpdesk Used Java’s collection framework extensively for managing teh data across teh application. Developed and enhanced around fifty UIs and used JavaScript, HTML/DOM and Ajax based support methods. Experience in using SQL on Oracle databases to create test data and perform data verification. Used Stored procedures to perform database related operations. Used CSS, HTML and JSP extensively to create uniform look and feel of teh new Web User screens. Performed extensive testing to minimize teh browser compatibility issues. Handled teh JDBC backend operations of teh respective modules Monitored teh error logs using Log4J and fixed teh problems. Environment: Tomcat 6.0, Eclipse 3.2, JSP 2.0, Spring, Servlets,, XML, JavaScript, HTML, HTML DOM, XSLT, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, UNIX 