SUMMARY 6+ Years of experience in software design and development using advanced information technologies. Expert in wide variety of software development methodologies, platforms and tools. Demonstrates commitment to superior customer service through positive attitude and teamwork. Driven by new challenges and desire to be successful in all endeavors. Experience in designing on - line and real-time 24 x 7 systems, client server and multi-tier distributed computing systems with interfaces to legacy systems. Championed use of Java/J2EE based multi-tier application architectures and Object oriented analysis and design, UML. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Java, C++, C, PL/SQL +Operating Systems: Windows, Linux Databases: Oracle, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Sybase Frameworks & Design principals: Struts, Spring, Hibernate, AspectJ, RESTful web services, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring Boot,Apache CXF, Jersey/JAX-RS, SOA, Agile Scrum Java EE & Web Applications: Java, JSP/Servlets, JavaScript, XML, SOAP/XML, REST, AJAX, DHTML, HTML5, Twitter Bootstarp, JQuery, Angular JS, Angular6, Angular Material, Typescript, NodeJS, NPM, AG-GRID, Bootstrap, Slick grid, Json, CSS Application Servers: Tomcat Version Control: SVN, Git Tools: & Utils: Eclipse, IntelliJ, Visual Studio Code, CVS, Ant, Maven, Junit, TOAD, SQL Plus, SQL Loader, Shell scripting, Visio, SQL Server management studio PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Jersey City, NJ Sr. J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Develop RESTFul web services API’s to be consumed by JSF and Angular. Involved in the complete SDLC process of the application from development to UAT deployment for business validations. Involved in the functional testing and development of Junit test cases suite. Work along closely with other teams across the globe to ensure the smooth delivery of the feature stories and resolving production issues. Designed and developed AIA using Angular6, Angular Material,AgGrid, TypeScript, Node-JS and NPM Involved in code reviews and bug fixing to ensure the code is robust. Deployment of the code using Jenkins, Jules and AIM deployment tool. Implemented data persistence and extraction using the Hibernate and myBatis XML mapping. Environment: J2EE, JDK 1.8, JSF, Spring, Angular6, Angular Material, Ag-Grid, HTML, CSS, myBatis, Hibernate, Core Java, Spring MVC, Rest Web services, XML, Tomcat, Maven, Jenkins, IntelliJ, Jules, AIM Deployment, JUnit, Mockito. Confidential, Deerfield, IL Sr. J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables within time. Scheduled meetings with the business users to figure out the requirements as well as the actual goals to develop the application. Followed Scrum concepts of Agile Methodology to produce the high-Quality application. Created Technical Design Document to capture all aspects of the Modules. Coded for service side components: Spring Controllers, Business Objects, and Database Objects and General Utility classes. Created mappings for Data Access objects with Oracle Database. Designed and implemented application using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, Spring MVC, Spring IOC,Spring Annotations, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, Spring-JDBC, SQL, MySql . Involved in co-coordinating with various teams which include: Business, QA, Development and Prod Support . Translated designs and style guides into functional user interfaces, ensuring cross browser compatibility, performance and robustness. Created RESTful web services using Spring WebMVC. Designed and developed rich front end screens using Twitter Bootstarp, Angular JS, JQuery and Ajax. Well versed with Core Java concepts like Datastructures, Collections, Algorithms Provide Production support and troubleshooting; including working with customers in resolving any issues that they may encounter. Deployed applications on Websphere application Server. User SVN as a version control System. Environment: Java / J2EE, Spring core, Spring security, Spring JMS, Spring Web MVC, RESTful webservices, Spring forms, Spring JDBC, Maven, Twitter Bootstrap, Angular JS, JQuery, Ajax, HTML, Ajax, CSS, Stored procedures, Websphere application server, JIRA, Oracle 11g, Sqldeveloper, Change Management using Servicenow, SVN.. Confidential J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Provide Production support and troubleshooting; including working with customers in resolving any issues that they may encounter. Involved in designing and developing Underwriting EMS Web Application system using Twitter Bootstrap, JQuery, Slick gird, Spring, AspectJ, Spring Restful WebServices and Spring-JDBC. Proficient with multiple packages of the Core Java API, including Collections, Concurrency, Multi threading, Annotations, IO, Lang, Reflection, Generics, Enhanced For Loops, Typesafe Enums, varargs, Autoboxing, and Proxy. Involved in developing many complicated Stored Procedures, functions, triggers and views Involved in implementing stored procs and functions in Sybase. Did performance tuning in Sybase. Designed tables, procedures and processes. Extensive experience writing SQL queries. Created detailed technical design documents along with illustrations based on UML methodologies. Extensively designed and developed Spring Restful web services needed by the consumers. Performed code review and discuss best practices with other team members on a frequent basis. Environment: Eclipse, Tomcat Servlets engine, JDK 1.7, JSP, Servlets, Spring, HTML5, Spring Restful WebServices, Spring-JDBC, AspectJ, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery, Json, Twitter Bootstrap, Redhat Linux, Sybase, Toad, MS SQL Server, SVN, SQL Server management studio. Confidential, New York, NY J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Involved in requirements, analysis, design, development, code reviews, and testing during the software development lifecycle. Designed and developed EBROADCAST system which enables high quality email campaigns for sensitive client lists and Provides Delivery Status Notification at the individual email level and automates the capture and reporting of all detail statistics. Designed and developed QF-WORKSMART which is a secure, Internet-Based job management Platform, which tracks jobs, time sheets, schedules, Gantt charts and other applet based charts. implemented Log4j using spring and AspectJ. Replaced RMI server with Web Services using Axis-2 Involved in RedHat Linux administration. Followed MVC pattern using Struts frame work, Spring web mvc. Contributed in the analysis of performance tuning of all the Applications Environment: Eclipse, Apache Web Server, Tomcat Servlet engine, JDK 1.6, Struts Frame work, JSP, Servlets, Spring, AspectJ, Hibernate, Visio Professional 2000, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery, Json, Redhat Linux, Oracle 9i, MySQL, CVS. 