SUMMARY Around 7 years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, documentation, implementing, deployment, testing and maintenance of software systems in server - side programming and distributed programming Proficient in Java, J2EE and web-based technologies like Spring Boot, MAVEN, ANT, Struts, Java Server Pages (JSP), Servlets, Java Beans, Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), Log4j, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript and CSS. Expertise in front-end UI design implementations by writing HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS to make better Single Page Application (SPA) working on Node.js server. Strong in Object Oriented Design and Implementation, Development using Java/J2EE technologies, Microsoft Azure cloud product suite (Service Bus, Event Hub, Azure Function, Azure Blob Storage, and AzureCosmosDB). Well-versed in developing applications with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, AXIS, JAX-WS, and RESTful web services. Used JERSEY framework to implement teh JAX-RS (JavaAPI for XML and RESTful Service) and provided security using SSL. Proficient in core Java design patterns such as Singleton, Observer, Builder, Decorator, Proxy, Factory and J2EE patterns such asMVC and DAO. Strong in core Java concepts including Java 8, Java 5 generics, multi-threading, data structures and collections in Java/J2EE applications. Track record of increasing responsibility in teh business software design, Microservices, systems analysis/development and full lifecycle project management. Worked on JMS to do messaging and to has communication between teh applications. Manage backend transactions using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services. Expertise in data modelling, administration and development using SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL in Oracle (8i, 9i and 10g), MySQL, DB2, and SQL server environments. Proficient with Hibernate and JDBC to connect databases like Oracle, MySQL and DB2 to store, delete, manipulate and retrieve data from them in many applications. Expertise in deploying applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server 7.0/6.0/5.3, BEA Web logic 9.1/7.x, JBoss 4.0 application servers and Tomcat 5.0 web server. Hands-on experience in using message brokers such as RabbitMQ. Strong in source controller tools like Subversion (SVN), CVS, IBM Clear case, Perforce and GIT. Experience with AWS services like EC2, VPC, Cloud Front, Elastic Beanstalk, Route 53, RDBMSand S3. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: C, C#, Java, J2EE J2EE Technologies: Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Web Services, REST, SOAP Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, jQuery, AngularJS, XML, Ajax Cloud Platform: AWS Web/Application Servers: Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere, WebLogic Frameworks: Struts, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, JSF, Hibernate, JUnit Databases: Oracle, MS Access, DB2, Cosmos DB, MS SQL, MySQL, MongoDB IDE and development tools: Eclipse, NetBeans Build tools: ANT, MAVEN Repositories: CVS, GitHub, SVN Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, MS DOS, Windows 7/10 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Windsor, CT Java/J2EE Stack Developer Responsibilities: Participated in teh Software Development Life Cycle phases of teh project. Designed and analyzed project based on MVC Architecture. Developed low level design document with Use Case diagram, Sequence diagram, Collaboration diagram, Class diagram, Activity diagram and component diagram using UML. Used MVC, DAO and Singleton design patterns. Created teh Spring MVC components like Dispatcher Servlets, Handler Mapping controller, configure Request mapping annotation controllers and view resolver controller. Used spring framework web flow to navigate between teh pages. Used Log4J for logging teh messages to flat files, database and e-mail. Developed SQL queries, Stored Procedures and functions for incorporating business logic. Developed teh application using JSP and used JDBC for database connections. Written EJBs including Session Beans for database using WebLogic Server. Developed user interface applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery, Ajax, XML, Node.js, Bootstrap and AngularJS. Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate, implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database. Implemented functionality like searching, filtering, validating, sorting using AngularJS and JavaScript. Implemented backend using Node.js and Express.js with MySQL as database and AWS S3 storage. Used Struts framework in building teh admin module for master configuration. Implemented Spring Boot microservices to divide teh application into sub modules. Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI. Implement database connections and remote repository CRUD methods on cosmosDB/No-SQL DB/Mongo DB. Used multithreading for faster and parallel processing of teh files. Collaborated with testers and developers and prepared test plans for producing high quality applications. Deployed a .war file dat boot handles various requests from clients. Implemented complete Maven build life cycle to achieve organized application structure and conflict free dependencies in pom.xml file. Tested teh DAOs and services by JUnit test cases. Wrote automation test cases using TestNG to test UI behavior. Deployed applications into continuous integration environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy teh code on CI environments for testing. Developed SVN controls to track and maintain teh different versions of teh project. Environment: s: JDK1.8, Spring boot, J2EE, Microservices, AWS, HTML5, XML, Ajax, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.js, Node.js, Struts, Maven, Jenkins, MVC, Hibernate, MySQL, REST, Cosmos DB, WebLogic, Log4J, JUnit, TestNG. Confidential, Pittusburg, PA Java Full Stack Developer Responsibilities: Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of teh application using agile methodology. Designed and developed Restful service interface using Spring MVC to teh underlying customer event API. Designed Java components and integrated using spring framework. Designed, developed and implemented integration service to receive EDI message from N4 Terminal Operating System using Java, Spring Boot, JMS, Azure cloud development and resources like Azure Service Bus, Azure Function, Azure Storage Account and Azure CosmosDB. Developed teh GUI of teh application using AngularJS and Ajax. Created Single Page Application using AngularJS to improve teh performance of teh program. Used Spring Bean at teh server-side to write teh business logic and interaction with persistence layer. Used JSON format to send teh data to teh client. Implemented web service using Apache CFX SOAP and REST Web Service. Implemented Microservice Architecture, with Spring Bootbased services interacting through a combination of REST and SOAP. Scalable Web Architecture based AWS Cassandra in Python Linux OS for High I/O GPS Application DevOps Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS Developed REST services using Spring Boot to serve teh UI with JSON data and involved in creating controller advices to handle exceptions and bad requests. Identified memory leaks and memory consumption and continuously monitoring teh performance. Extensively used Java Collection framework and Exceptional handling. Created model layer using Hibernate and extensively used its API to perform CRUD operation. Using Hibernate for persistence layer and HQL for query purpose. Used Spring ORM Support for Hibernate to manage efficiently Hibernate Resources and consistent exception Hierarchy. Using Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of information, such as order status report, delivery report. Used JMS using RabbitMQ to report failure of connectivity between Quad instance and other components in Cluster. Extensively used teh Log4j for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking and Exception statements. Worked on ANT scripts to build and deploy teh application. Used Hibernate ORM frameworks for database connectivity. Developed Stored Procedures, Views and Triggers in Oracle 11g database Used SQL Stored Procedures and DML queries for storing and updating user data. Environment: JDK 1.8, Spring Boot1.4, Spring Framework, Spring MVC,RESTful Webservices, JSON, Angular JS, Apache CXF, HTML5, CSS3, JMS, RabbitMQ, Hibernate 4.3, Cosmos DB, Microservices, Spring Tool Suite, Windows 7, Junit and Tomcat. Confidential, Newark, NJ Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Participated in teh Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Requirements gathering, Designing, Coding, Integration, and Deployment and production phases. Initiated and Developed majority JPA Implementation, Caching strategies and coordination and conversion JDBC. Designed and implemented Oracle SQL based database to persist high-volume user profile data for vertical teams. Developed Graphical User Interfaces using UI frameworks Angular JS and Webpages using HTML and JSP’s for user interaction. Part of Data Migration process using Azure by integrating with Github repository and Jenkins. Used Spring Boot in RESTful APIs created teh Request for Proposal (RFP) Microservices. Used persistence frameworks, Hibernate ORM, JPA to map POJOs to a relational database. Worked on Mongo DB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design. Implemented Hibernate in teh Data Access Object layer to access and update information in teh Oracle12c Database. Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, serialization, Garbage Collection, Exception Handling, Collection API's to implement various features and enhancements. Used My Eclipse IDE, configured and deployed teh applications onto Apache Tomcat 7.0and Apache Tomcat 8 application servers. Wrote test cases in JUnit, Mockito and Power Mock for unit testing of classes. Consumed and produced Web Services using REST based services. Used JAX-WS Web services to retrieve credit history of teh applicants. Used BIT Bucket version control to track and maintain teh different version of teh application. Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring Modules, Spring Boot, Microservices, Apache Tomcat Application Server, Rest Web services, Azure, Apigee, Oracle, Swagger, HTML, Eclipse, AJAX, JAX-WS, JavaScript, Maven, Windows XP, JUnit, Log4j, BIT Bucket Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Worked as a full stack developer to develop web applications using spring, REST based Web Services providing OAuth Autantication. Designed teh user interface using JSP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS for manipulating, validating and customizing. Worked with web API’s to provide services to HTTP requests. Developed websites with cross-browser compatibility using HTML, CSS and jQuery. Implemented teh project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot. Created and maintained mapping files in Hibernate. Configured web.xml and managed beans. Integrated JSF, spring and Hibernate frameworks. Used Maven as a build tool. Developed JUnit tests for teh modules. Debug application. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Spring MVC, JSP, REST, Hibernate, Junit. 