SUMMARY Over 7+ years of experience, involved in development, system testing, debugging, implementation and maintenance of software applications using Java. Hands on experience in design and development of web, client - server environments and enterprise applications using Core Java and J2EE technologies like Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JDBC, JavaBeans, EJB. Experience in using the JavaScript frameworks JQUERY, Angular.js, Backbone.js, React.JS Node.js & Twitter Bootstrap. Experience Developing application using Groovy, Grails, GSP, GORM and Grails Plugins and Grails Rest Services. Strong experience of developing data models using Hibernate ORM tools, POJOs and configuring Hibernate persistence layer. Having Knowledge on Scala, used as templates in Play Framework. Expertise in designing and implementing a cloud based micro-services system written in Scala using Play framework and Akka. Had knowledge on continuous integration and deployment using Jenkins, docker. Expertise in Web Designing and User Interface Development using Web Technologies. Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark and Familiar with JSON based REST Web services. Experienced with DevOps methodologies and cloud infrastructure automation tools like chef and puppet. Expertise in Development of several types of forms and reports using Oracle APEX versions. Experience in Agile development methodology, waterfall and TDD (test driven development). Extensive knowledge in implementing web applications using Java 7/Java 8. Experience developing Spring based Java microservices. Experience working with network protocols SNMP, NetConf. Has Extensive experience in learning and practices newer tools like Solr, Elastic search, Kibana, Lucerne, Spotfire. Built Analytics KPI engine using Python and PIG. Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, JSONP, and XML. Hands on experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS)including EC2, S3, DynamoDB, Simple DB. Strong Experience and Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design and implementation of OOAD using C++. Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Open stack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront and Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins. Valuable experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on DevOps tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture. Experienced in developing Webservices with Python programming language and Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark. Expertise in Lift and Play frameworks for leveraging Scala actors to support more concurrent requests than is possible with thread per request server. Knowledge in implementing a full-fledged web app with NodeJS (express.js as webserver) & Cassandra. Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront. Experienced in using C++ Standard templates, library's, Containers and Pointers. Well versed in designing presentation layer components using Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, C#, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database and Implemented machine learning algorithms in Spark and Python, for segmentation of data. Expertise in using GitHub for versioning and Jenkin for continuous integration. Experience in developing RESTful web services in Java EE Spring framework and Hibernate ORM. Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language. Hands-on experience in designing and implementing Spring Boot based services, RESTful Web Services and Spring MVC architecture. Expertise in JDBC API with Oracle 9i/10g/11g, MS SQL Server 2005/08, MySQL, DB2 and Microsoft Access. Experience in implementing Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) using Axis framework. Experience in dynamic web applications design using open source MVC, Spring and Struts Frameworks. Hands on experience in front-end interface development using HTML, DHTML, CSS, XSLT, JavaScript, and AJAX. Experience in importing& exporting various data sources using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS). Worked with testing tools such asJUnit for Java,QUnit for JavaScript,andA/B Testing for Website Design and its traffic flow. Experience in implementing CoreJavaJ2EEdesign patterns like Singleton, Factory Pattern, Business Delegate, Service Locator etc. TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies:  Core Java, JSP, Servlets, DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, C#, SASS/LESS, AJAX, XML, JSON. Frameworks:  Spring Web MVC, Hibernate/JPA, AngularJS, Node.js, JSF, RESTful Web Services, Junit, Active MQ, JMS, Notepad++, Sublime Text Editor, AccuRev, SVN Tools: and Servers: NetBeans, Eclipse, spring, Tomcat, EE 7, JBoss, Apache, Struts. Databases:  MySQL, NoSQL, PostgreSQL, MS-SQL, Oracle (10G, 11G). Development Methodologies:  J2EE, Object Oriented Analysis and Design, Waterfall, Iterative and incremental development, Agile. Key Skills:  Geo Mapping, .Net, Amazon AWS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Sr. Java Developer Confidential - New York, NY Responsibilities: Worked on Design and Development of a Batch Process Management Engine with C++, UNIX Shell Scripting and SQL. Invoked Restful Web service of BankStatement.au, using play frameworks HTTP client. Applied data transformation business rules to transform code from one format to another format using Nodejs. Developed controllers, services, model and form components in AngularJS. Developed Spark code using Scala and Spark-SQL for faster testing and data processing. Investigated Elastic Search to swap out Solr service for server pool reduction and extensibility. Used AJAX, Java script and GWT to create interactive user interface. Used Ajax and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and Worked on configuring TCP/IP, network interface, assigning static routes and hostnames. Used DevOps tools like Puppet Server/puppet Client and Configured Puppet and used to install and administrate the Virtual servers. Build back-end application with Python / Django, work with docker, RabbitMQ, Celery, Jenkins. Involved in developing an automation tool, in Java and Scala on Akka Framework. Configured Hibernate to store the persistence data into Oracle 11g database and written HQL to access the data from the database. Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers such as EC2 and storage such as S3 buckets using AWS Cloud Watch. Wrote user interface components for IDMS using AngularJS. Used Apache Spark Scala as machine learning language for model creation and predictions using Logistic Regression algorithm. Worked on migrating MapReduce programs into Spark transformations using Spark and Scala. Designed and developed front end architecture using Angular JS, NPM, Gulp, and Bower. Created modules to store and mutate data to build the backend API using Exspress.JS and NodeJS. Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database. Implemented AKKA & RabbitMQ for large scale remote processing. Created detailed AWS Security Groups which behaved as virtual firewalls dat controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances. Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems. Setup and maintained Sphinx and SOLR elastic search servers and application for various sites. Worked on analyzing and doing research and implementation using Play Framework. Involved in coding and supporting the worker portal of Integrated Eligibility System using Java 7. Utilized Agile software development methodologies including pair programming, continuous integration, and scrum events. Developed REST APIs using Akka Http and Scala in a Docker container. Worked File uploading and Downloading web service using play framework with MONGO DB. Involved in loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Oracle database with Python. Built Spring based Java Microservices to support web application. Developed and managed cloud VMs with AWS EC2 command line clients and management console. Developed concurrent backend components using Scala and Akka. Used JSP's HTML on front end, Servlets as Front Controllers and JavaScript for client side validations. Involved in Designing & Developing Patient interface, Customer Interface web application using Spring, Hibernate & Play frameworks. Developed the Accommodations utilizing AWS Elastic Search, Restful Accommodations utilizing JAX-RS and Java. Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Development. Involved in designing and heavily participated in coding of the core platform APIs utilizing concepts of reactive architecture based on Akka and Play frameworks. Designed the user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS framework. Involved in working for DevOps Platform team responsible for specialization areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation. Involved in Installation, setup, and configuration of Cisco switches for TCP/IP intra-network and wireless access point across the network for the local area network and Wi-Fi. Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker. Involved in creating S3 buckets and managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and backup on AWS. Involved in configuring Solr/Elastic Search monitored the applications. Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application. Worked extensively with writing SQL and PL/SQL using Sybase. Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval and Automation of various administrative tasks on multiple servers using DevOps. Had exposure to create jobs for continuous integration and deployment using Jenkins. Created and modified SQL and PL/SQL scripts for data conversions and performance improvement using Sybase. Created various MongoDB collections and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from for the application on devices and used Mongoose API to access the MongoDB from NodeJS. Involved in process for builds and deployments with Maven and Jenkins for continuous integration. Implemented server-side components primarily using Core Java, Multithreading, Spring, Hibernate and Web Services. Developed Java microservices to handle inbound loan data. (Spring, Tomcat7, RabbitMQ, REST, XML). Developed unit testing frame work using JUnit test cases for continuous integration testing and used JTest Tool for performance testing. Designed Front-end Screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, jQuery, JSTL, JSP, AJAX, NodeJS and Bootstrap. Used Ajax to transfer JSON format Data between front-end and back-end restful API. Good Knowledge of Cloud Computing software's (IaaS) of dat of Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, RDS and EBS). Used Spring Framework for developing the application and used hibernate to map to Oracle database. Used Spring MVC as Web module, involved in design, development of new Action classes to interact with business logic. Tested the applications using JUNIT and Mockito and configure through Maven surefire plugins to be part of continuous integration. Involved in relational Database design, creating tables, views, user defined functions, triggers and stored procedures in MS SQL Server. Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end Restful Server. Sr. Java Developer Confidential - Atlanta, GA Responsibilities: Designed and implemented enhancement related to tips and gratuity in C++. Designed the front-end applications, user interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT and CSS3. Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface. Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala. Implemented Content management using Andromeda, Contentful and NodeJS. Involved in developing java microservices which are interconnected in the AWS cloud. Involved with REST web service were used as interface between .Net application dat are used for Front End User Interface to interact with back end services dat are developed mainly using Java. Achieved Behavior-Driven Development (BDD) implementation with Cucumber where backend language used is Java and expanded test scenarios, tracked Cucumber reports. Tested the web application and deployed on the Apache Tomcat web server and JBoss application server. Responsible for generating scripts using C# and JavaScript of model interaction. Developed consumer-based features and applications using Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming. Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component projects and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration. Worked on NodeJS for developing server-side web applications. Designed and implemented application using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, Oracle. Experience in Implementation of MVC architecture using Spring MVC and SOAP web service and SOAPUI and Creating data pipelines using Apache Spark, a big-data processing and computing framework. Developed and delivered high-definition streaming data platform using Scala/Akka/MongoDB stack in an agile development environment. Developed and performed unit testing using JUnit framework in a Test-Driven environment (TDD). Implemented data processing and storage module using multithreading concept. Designed and developed very complex and large web pages using AngularJS, HTML 5, and CSS. Using C and C++ designed and implemented enhancements related to both Table service and Quick service modules of point of sale systems. Used Test driven approach(TDD) for developing services required for the application. Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB. Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters and used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation. Familiar with JSON based also Used Django APIs for database access. Designed/Developed J2EE applications/POCs using Java, J2EE Technologies with DROOLS, Aspect J on BEA WebLogic server 9.1 Designed the Web Applications by replacing the custom MVC Type 2 web framework with the new Spring MVC framework. Worked on Java Script libraries like jQuery and JSON as well as Wrote JUnit test cases to test the server-side Modules. Designed the user interface of the application using HTML, CSS3, and JavaScript. Used Axis Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount from an application dat is remote and global to different financial institutions. Used Amazon Cloud Watch to monitor AWS services and Amazon Cloud Watch logs to monitor application. Involved in implementing the Hibernate API for database connectivity and Developed Hibernate mapping configuration files to provide the relation between Core java objects and database tables. Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery). Used Hibernate to transfer the application data between client and server, developed this application based on MVC Architecture using open source EJB. Created, maintained, and backed up MS SQL Server using scripts. Developed and published Java Web Services PoS Services so dat other systems can use the service using Web Services. Java Developer Confidential - Philadelphia, PA Responsibilities: Involved in developing presentation layer using JSPs and model layer using EJB Session Beans while Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment, integration and conducting walk-through code reviews. Worked with relational model databases using T-SQL and Microsoft SQL Server Enterprise Manager. Application developed with strict adherence to J2EE best practices. Created UML class and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose along with Implemented the web-based application following theMVC IIarchitecture usingStruts Framework. Migrated entire application, from using MS Access queries to SQL Server stored procedures. Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using JDBC and performed configuration of JAVA Application Framework. Developed Unit test cases for the classes using Junit and developed and maintained Ant Scripts for the build purposes on testing and production environments. UsedJavaScript,HTML for creating interactive front-end screens and extensively used CustomJSP tagsto separate presentation from application logic. Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the angular JS front-end. Worked on Restful web services, which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON, few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents. Wrote JSPs, Servlets and deployed them on WebLogic Application server.