SUMMARY Java Full Stack developer with nearly 6 years of IT experience in designing, developing, Deploying and maintaining web - based, client/server applications along with Enterprise and Distributed applications. Proficient in designing and developing Java/J2EE, Spring, Struts, MVC based framework. Got good experience with NOSQL databases like MongoDB. Processed large sets of structured, semi-structured and unstructured data using Hadoop. Involved in creating Database SQL and PL/SQL queries and stored Procedures. Good noledge on Pivotal Cloud Foundry. Established Continuous Integration (CI) practices using Jenkins. Experience in designing and reviewing User stories/Requirements, Test cases, Test Scenarios, Test Scripts, and Test Plans of both manual and automated tests. Expertise in various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development (TDD), and Pair Programming. Significant work experience in middleware technologies such as Web Services Web services SOAP, Restful, JAX-RPC and UDDI and Messaging technologies. Implemented micro services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Microservices, and enabled discovery using Netflix Eureka server. Experience with different type of services - Batch, RESTful, SOAP services. Hand-on experience in Service-Oriented Architecture, Web Services using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-RS RESTFul, Jersey and OAuth2. Extensively used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate and JPA. Experienced in developingJavaAPI to connect withAWSS3 Services for storing and retrieving data stored in the S3 buckets. Experienced in AWScloud formation templates and configured SQS service throughjavaAPI to send and receive the information. Experienced in Amazon EC2 setting up instances, virtual private cloud (VPCs), and security groups. Participated and involved in test procedures and test plans reviews Hands-on experience in using Log4J, Junit for building, logging, and testing. Experienced in writing Maven scripts and used Ant for build and release management during the project life cycle. Extensively used the JavaScript frameworks, jQuery, AngularJS. Design and document each module as a part of the implementation/delivery process. Proficient in developing front-end systems withJavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 and MV* frameworks. TECHNICAL SKILLS Core Java: Java 1.7, Data Structures, Collections, Generics, Serialization Reflections, Concurrency/Multithreading, RMI, PL/SQL, C++. J2EE Technologies: JSP, JMS, JavaServlets, JDBC, Struts, Spring Core, Spring Batch, Spring (Core, MVC, DAO, JPA, AOP, Security, Boot, Quartz), JSF. Web Services: SOAP, Spring REST, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JMS (Active MQ, Rabbit MQ). Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, CSS,XML, XSL, XSLT, XSD, XHTML, SOAP, WSDL, JSON-parsing, JSON-DTD, Schema Modeling,JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax. Bootstrap, Angular 4. ORM Frameworks: Hibernate, DAO, Spring JPA. Database: Oracle, DB2, MySQL, SyBase, MongoDB, Cassandra, Microsoft SQL Server. Tools: Eclipse, JBuilder, Rational Rose Enterprise.Log4J, Maven, Ant, Jenkins and Gradle. Version Control Systems: SVN (Apache SubVersion), CVS (Concurrent Versions System), Git. Application Servers: Oracle WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Apache Tomcat. Testing: Junit, Mockito, Selenium Design Methodologies: Rational Unified Process, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development, Rapid Application Development. Operating Systems: Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, UNIX, Oracle Solaris, Linux(Redhat). PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Dallas, Texas Java Full Stack Developer Responsibilities: Creating user stories for the APIs to be converted into micro services and ensuring they are demand ready. Re-designing legacy Confidential &T API into micro services adhering to REST compliances. Enhancements to the existing APIs as per the business requirements. Registering micro services into GRM (Global Resource Manager) and invoking them using service calls. Developed contract testing approach using PACT Broker and component testing using JUNIT. Fixing defects raised by QA team and supporting DevOPS in migrating applications to DEV and QC environment. Creating docker images for the micro service and deploying it to Kubernetes PODS using JENKINS pipeline. Working with DA (Design Assurance) team in finalizing the service requests and responses as per resource hierarchy. Implemented and tested RESTFul web service calls by using Spring framework and POSTMAN. Using Active MQ to implement Asynchronous services and Cassandra to store processed requests results. Wrote SQL queries and Stored Procedures using PL/SQL and hibernate to retrieve and insert into database schemas. Extensively used Core Java concepts and implements collections, me/O, Exception handling and Generics in logic design and development. All the functionality is implemented using Spring Boot, Micro Services and Hibernate ORM. Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules. Developed Rest APIs in Spring bootutilizing Postman, Swagger. Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services. Developed various batch jobs which process bulk of data received from business partners using Spring Batch. Created and managed microservices. Microservices were being used as a strategy to gradually replace a core monolithic application while still adding business features. Developed the CRUD and transferred data as JSON format using RESTful webservices to controller layer. Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL. Developed applications for consuming messages using Apache Active MQ. Developed application service components, configured beans and generated CRUD (create, read, update, delete) database schema. Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS. Creating fully automated CI build and deployment infrastructure and processes for multiple projects. Integrated JPA persistence using Hibernate in order to save the current state of the drools noledge session using the Spring Framework integration. Design and develop Test cases for Test Driven Development (TDD) and Behavioral driven development (BDD). Performed Analysis and testing by Junit, Mockito frameworks for unit, integration and functional testing. Used JIRA for User Stories and Epic management and GIT for version control. Experience with features of Angular 4 such as directives, dependency injection, modules and routing. Environment: Java 1.7, Java/j2ee, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Framework, Spring Data, Swagger, Spring Boot, Micro Services, Amazon Web Services, Apache Active MQ, Hibernate, JavaScript, SOAP, RESTful, OAuth2, Swagger, IBM Web Sphere, jQuery,JUnit, Spock, Mockito,JIRA, Git, Maven, Jeknins (CICD), Angular 4. Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Used Microservices with Spring Boot service interacting through amalgamation of REST and MQ message broker. Developed to provide REST API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC. Built Spring based Java Microservices to support Enterprise Web application. Developed an application using spring, Spring Boot, Spring Data and Spring REST web services. Implemented security and autantication concepts such as OAuth, and Cryptographic algorithms. Involved in coding components for the Transactional Model to handle many requests using Spring Boot. Developed restful web service using Spring Boot and deployed to pivotal webservices. Proficient with Software development methodologie s like Agile Methodologies. Developed Java1.7, EJB 3, Rabbit MQ, Mongo DB environment. Implemented the function to send and receive AMQP messages on Rabbit MQ synchronously and asynchronously. Digital business platform for the enterprise and cloud that enables enterprises to create and run agile intelligent business applications. Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries. Involved in the configuration management using Gradle, Eclipse RCP, CVS and GitHub. Strong understanding of JPA, SOA, Web Services, JBoss, REST and XSD’s. Wrote test cases and performed Manual Testing like Positive Testing and Negative Testing, Regression, Integration, Unit Testing. Excellent noledge in Creating and Managing Logical volumes in RedHat environment. Hands on experience on Linux shell scripting. Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the Eclipse RCP application onto Web Logic. Environment: Java 1.7, Core Java, Spring 4.2, Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry(PCF), Rabbit MQ, REST, SOAP UI, JBOSS 7, Oracle 11g, OOAD, Hibernate 3.0, MongoDB, OAuth, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, JavaScript, Angular Js, Design Patterns, JQuery, AJAX, HTML5, CSS 3.0, Maven, ANT, Jenkins, XML, PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, JNDI, JUnit, JAXB, SVN, Log4J, Agile Methodology. Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Participated in the complete Software Development Life Cycle. Involved in implementation of server layer services like business services, entity services and integration services. Utilized features of Spring Core layer and Spring DAO support layer in order to develop the application. Analyzed BRD (Business Requirement Document) to understand high level change from business perspective. Prepared low level technical design document and conducted design related discussions with the team members. Implemented the application specific Web services to transfer data in real-time between EXPERE document engine, Team works BPM tool and other legacy system by utilizing WSDL, SOAP and JMS technologies. Developed front-end UI using HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript technologies as well asJava components. Hands-on development experience with frameworks such as Spring MVC and Hibernate ORM. Developed database PL/SQL objects and worked with SQL queries to communicate with backend. Comfortable using UNIX commands to deployJavaapplication to non-production environments. Experienced in writing JUnit Test forJavaand J2EE applications. Used agile development methodology like daily scrum, sprint planning, sizing, sprint review, and retrospective. Tracked development defects in various environments and supported production environment 24X7. Environment: Java1.7, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Eclipse, CVS, WebLogic 11g, Oracle 11g, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript, UNIX 