SUMMARY Overall 8 years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance of Web Based and Client - Server Applications. Extensive experience in designing and developing software applications wif Core Java, JSF, Ice Faces and other web technologies including J2SE, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Swings, JMS, RMI, EJB, JAVA Beans, JDBC, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, XML, ANT, SOAP/REST webservices, Web logic application servers and Apache/Tomcat Web servers Solid experience in implementation of multi-tiered enterprise application involving Open Source Frameworks like Spring3.0, Struts1.2, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Junit and Log4j Strong experience on software development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile development and Rapid Application Development. Strong experience on frameworks like Spring MVC/DI/ORM/JDBC/AOP/Context/ Security and Struts (MVC, Architecture, Interceptors, Action Mappings and Resource Bundles). Proficient in Java Collections and Exception handling concepts. Strong experience wif frontend technologies like HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, jQuery, AngularJs, Scripting languages like JavaScript, and AJAX. Proficient in Java Model View Controller (MVC) Pattern. Strong noledge of Java application development background, wif experience in defining functional and technical specifications and deploying applications (WAR and EAR) on various servers in multiple ambiences (DEV, SIT, UAT and PROD). Expertise in Eclipse and Net Beans IDE, IBM RAD for developing, deploying and debugging teh applications. Experience working wif various web servers like Tomcat, WebLogic and WebSphere Experience using databases like Oracle, MySQL. Experience in using SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and optimization wif Oracle, MySQL databases. Experience in Configuration Management using SVN. Good noledge in building and deploying applications using ANT and Maven scripts. Self-motivated and a goal-oriented team player wif strong analytical and problem-solving abilities wif TEMPeffective communication and interpersonal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Technologies: Java, Java Beans, Java Server Faces (JSF), Java Server Pages (JSP), C#, Vb.net Web Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJs Tools: & IDE: Eclipse IDE, Net Beans IDE, Unity, Adobe Animate CC, Adobe Director 12, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, Maya 3D, JIRA, HP QC Version Control: SVN Web Servers/ Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBOSS and Glassfish. Databases: Oracle 9i/10g/11g, MySQL Development Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall Operating System: Windows (XP/7/8,10), Mac OS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Camden, NJ Senior Java J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Worked in requirement gathering, design and development of teh application in Agile methodology using SCRUM. Developed Use Case Diagrams, and Class Diagrams in UML using Rational Rose. Developed user interface using JSP, Bootstrap, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, and Java Script. Developed Application under J2EE architecture using Spring boot and Hibernate. Various controllers were developed for teh front-end using Spring MVC Developed application using Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Micro Services Developed Service Components using Spring Framework and Hibernate. Implementation of teh Singleton, Abstract Factory design pattern for teh enterprise level functionality. Used collections, multi-threading, java concurrency packages for running teh batch jobs in parallel using spring batch. Developed Data Access Layer using Hibernate and DAO Design Pattern. Created criteria queries, HQL and native SQL queries. Integration of Automated Build wif Deployment Pipeline. Currently installed Chef Server and clients to pick up teh Build from Jenkins repository and deploy in target environments (Integration, QA, and Production). Expertise in using build tools like MAVEN and ANT for teh building of deployable artifacts such as war & ear from source code. Used git, CircleCI, Docker Kubernetes, terraform, for auto deployments. Managed and implemented secured microservices deployed on separate EC2 instance to protect teh client data in S3 storage on AWS VPC. Development and Consume of Web-Services (REST). Developed Spring Configuration XML file dat contains declarations and another dependent objects declaration. Implemented Spring Transaction management to maintain teh data Consistency. Wrote Native and Named Native queries which is used wif Hibernate. Log4j was used for writing logging errors. Maven is used to get all teh dependency jars for teh application and to deploy in teh server. Environment: Java/J2EE 1.8, Spring 4.0, Bootstrap, Angular JS, HTML, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, Web-Services (RESTFUL), WSDL/XSD, SOAP UI, Hibernate 4.0, Log4j, Maven, Axis 1.4, JAXWS 2.1, Tiles 2.2, WebLogic, Rational Rose. Confidential, Piscataway, NJ  Senior Java Developer Responsibilities: Participated in SDLC including Design, Analysis, Development of Use Cases based on teh functionality. Client-side validations are done using JavaScript and developed user interface using JSP, CSS, HTML, and Angular JS. Implemented AJAX for better user experience by dynamically providing Asynchronous request and response communication between teh client and teh server. Developed application under Spring MVC architecture using Spring boot and Hibernate. Involved in designing and coding of business logic using Micro Services, Spring IOC and AOP features. Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, creation of Hibernate mapping files. Used Tiles framework to reuse teh content for web pages. Used Apache Lucene for indexing and searching teh content. Used Apache tika for extraction of teh content. Implemented Web services to use teh data and services wif other applications. Developed JAVA API layer which interfaced client code wif RESTFUL web services. Developed SOAP based Web Services using JAXB. Actively participated in design review and code review meetings. Maven is used to build and deploy teh application. JUNIT is used for implementing teh test cases and Log4j is used for writing teh loggers. Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate Framework, Angular JS, HTML, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JUnit, Web Logic, My Eclipse, RESTFUL Web Services, Oracle 11g and Linux. Confidential Senior UI developer/ Lead/ Production Support Responsibilities: Created UI pages using Ice Faces, JSF and JavaScript. Created and modified teh CSS classes to change teh look and feel.Used JavaScript for Client-Side validations. Integrated UI wif backend services using Core Java. Experience in writing complex logics to extract data from Collections, Maps etc. Written code to handle exceptions using exception handling in Core JAVA. Implemented backend Logics using Java wif MVC pattern Design. Deployed web components, presentation components and business components in IBM WebSphere Application Server. Worked on Fine Tuning Database queries to improve performance. Worked Closely wif Clients to understand Requirements. Strong noledge of XML Schema. Resolving QC requests from testing team and Users. Developed new requirements for Change Requests. Attended Daily Scrum Calls to update Status on CR’s and QC issues. Worked on Fixing Production issues, raised by client and Users. Involved in debugging and bug-fixing of errors as a part of Unit testing. Monitored Junior Team Members to work on Common Goal. Worked on Design of Upgrade Version of K2. Part of a production support team, debugging and resolving production issues. Experience in working wif JIRA for issue tracking and resolving. Record and coordinateproductionsupportand environment section communications regarding environment issues. Update all environmental aspects ofproductionsupportdepartment. Update patches and code fix for production issues after unit testing. Environment: Java1.8, Core JAVA, Eclipse, IBM WebSphere, JSF, Servlets, CSS, Log4j, Maven, Oracle 11g, JavaScript, SVN, XML, JIRA. Confidential  L1/L2 Support Engineer Responsibilities: L1/L2 support Engineer For ACACS, AFEWS applications (APAC Region). Engaged wif Customers to resolve issues on daily basis. Updated Status on Issues Resolved and Current Issues assigned. Provided Support for Regular Updates in Backend and Frontend upgrades. Added code fixes and patches whenever needed. Maintained Logs for Issue Worked on. Performed timely health checks and Disaster recovery for Servers and Applications. Experience on working HP QC to track issues and update comments when required. Worked on Linux Server for Issue Resolving. Primary Support for both applications for APAC region. Checking and resolving incident tickets raised by banker or user. Environment: Core JAVA, Eclipse, Putty, Apache Server, Linux. Confidential  UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Distinct phases of teh project - Development, Quality Assurance Testing and Deployment. Used AGILE methodology for developing application. Involved in front end design using Html5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, and followed WCAG 2.0 guidelines. Using advanced level of EXTJs, JavaScript, CSS3 in teh validation frameworks for teh application. Involved in debugging and bug-fixing of errors as a part of Unit testing of teh modules. Worked on finding teh business processes and basic responsibilities of employees related to each department. Efficiently involved in daily meetings on giving inputs on teh enhancement of application design to facilitate efficient and easy access. Provided support to testing team in creating valid data for various testing scenarios. Environment: Core JAVA, HTML5, CSS3, EXTJs, JavaScript, Eclipse. Confidential Java Developer/ Support Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used Waterfall methodology for developing application. Implemented teh project using IceFaces, JSF, JavaScript, CSS and HTML as UI components. Used Maven script for building and deploying teh application. Implemented teh Hibernate framework (ORM) to interact wif database. Worked on Developing, Maintaining 6 Modules for teh Client. Developed and Maintained a complex webpage wif AJAX calls. Implemented Globalization of Application using Resource files. Involved in debugging and bug-fixing of errors as a part of Unit testing of teh modules. Efficiently involved in daily meetings on giving inputs on teh enhancement of application design to facilitate efficient and easy access. Provided support to testing team in creating valid data for various testing scenarios. Involved in Implementing Change Requests and Fixing Production Issues. Part of Migration Team which halped moving Application from Glassfish to IBM WebSphere. Perform investigating, analyzing and problem-solving activities in a variety of cross-functional areas including trade processing, file uploads, data management, andproductionscheduling. Experience on Issue tracking and resolving using HP QC. Provided code fixes for Issues raised on HP QC on timely manner for next production release. Environment: Java1.6, Maven, HTML, CSS, Websphere 7, IceFaces, JSF, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, SQL, Oracle 10g, Log4j, SVN, Eclipse, Glassfish, Hibernate, HP QC. 