SUMMARY Software Developer over 9+years of progressive experience and proven track recordin design,development & maintenance of applications developed in various design patterns like, Client - server architecture, 2-tier/Multi-tier architecture, MVC architecture. Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Rational Unified Process (RUP), Test Driven Development (TDD), Acceptance Test-Driven Development (ATDD)and Agile methodologies. Working Experience in SDLC by using Waterfall, Agile (Scrum) and Iterative system development methodologies. Proficient in application development using Java and J2EE technologies with expertise in JSP, Java Servlets, Hibernate ORM framework, Spring Framework, Apache Camel. Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, me/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC. Experience in development of DAO’s(Data Access Objects) to interact with the database using JEE, Hibernate and spring data Cassandra. Expertise in developing web applications with JavaEE, Spring Boot, SpringCORE(IOC Container, Dependency Injection and AOP),SpringMVC, Spring Batch and apache Camel. Expert in developing Application & Framework using MVC Architecture, STRUTS Framework, Java Server Faces, MVC pattern, J2EE Design Patterns, Use-case design and Core Java Patterns. Experience in producing and consuming Restful and SOAP web services. Experience in Microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud. Experience in consuming ODM WADL response in java layer. Extensive knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols (such as WSDL and SOAP), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and REST web services. Experience in developingUIscreens involving Servlets, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, jQuery, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS. Extensive knowledge in developing applications in a Single Page Application (SPAs) using various JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, Angular 2/4, Typescript, Node.js and Bootstrap Experience in using Oracle(PL/SQL), IBM, MYSQL databases and NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra. Proficient in making responsive web designs using either only HTML or CSS, by using CSS frameworks like Twitter Bootstrap. Experience with test automation tools like JUnit, Cucumber and Selenium. Hands on experience with using JUnit, TestNG and Mockito for developing Test Cases. Experience in using the version control software SVN, CVS and GIT. Expertise in developing in IDEs like Eclipse,Net Beans and IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite (STS). Strong communication and interpersonal skills. Strong Analytical and problem-solving skills. Ability to work on critical projects individual under tight deadlines. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: Java, C, SQL, HTML, DHTML, XML, jQuery, JavaScript, and CSS. Java Technologies: JavaBean, JMS, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, EJB Frameworks/ORM tools: JSF Framework, Struts 1.2, Spring3.0, EJB3.0, Spring Boot, Hibernate. JavaScript Frameworks: Node.js, Angular 2/4, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON. Web Server/Application Server: Apache Tomcat and WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBOSS SOA/ Web Services: WSDL, SOAP IDE, Editors: Eclipse IDE, Notepad++, Net Beans IDE.IntelliJ, JBOSS Developer studio, My Eclipse,Eclipse. Database: Oracle 11g/12C, My SQL Server. NOSQL: MongoDB Debugging Tools: Firebug, Bugzilla, Chrome Developer Tools. Version Control: SVN, GIT, CVS Build Tool: Ant, Maven, Gradle. Testing Tools: Test Director, Quality Center, Quick Test Pro(QTP),Karma, Jasmine. SDLC: Agile, Scrum,SDLC Java Tools: JUnit, Log4j, JWebUnit. UML Modeling Tool: Star UML, Visual Paradigm, Rational Rose Operating Systems: Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Ubuntu, Linux, Mac OS X PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Irving, Texas Java Full Stack Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for all stages of design, development, and deployment of applications. Active role in Test Driven Development termed as TDD apart from Agile Software Development Extensively worked with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS. Developed Graphical User Interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, bootstrap, AngularJS and JSP's for user interaction. Involved inJava Multithreadingto cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction Using Struts Framework developed and implemented the web-based application following theMVC. Written application level code to interact with RESTful Web APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and jQuery. Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript and AJAX. Developed the presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery Good experience with development of partial views and pages such as MVC Partial views, Ajax, AngularJS SPAs, JSON. Involved in Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose. Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status. Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to has relationships between application components. It is also used to separate the application configuration and dependency. Designing and developing restful api and services using best practices to interact within the microservices and with the front end. Using spring mvc and spring rest. Used multithreadingtoimprove performance in generating the reports in Java. Designed and developedWeb Services (SOAP, WSDL).Created and compiledXML Schemato generateJava Beanclasses usingApache Axis. Developed SPA (Single Page Applications) for presentation layer (UI) using Angular 2/4 with client-side validations. Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated it with the Struts Framework and Hibernate. Used the Struts Validation and Tiles Framework in the presentation layer. Worked on performance tuning with Web Services and Hibernateto minimize the response times to as minimal as possible (milliseconds) as per the SLAs. Used XML Http Request Object to provide asynchronous communication as part of AJAX implementation. MQ was used to provide a single unifying transport that reduces cost and maintenance efforts, including support for HTTP, REST and JMS. WSDL was used for publishing Web Service interfaces. Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP. Designed and implemented Java Classes to use JAXP parser to create Java objects to be able to modify the data received in the response. Used Git-Hub repository for version control. Wrote Ant Scripts to automate the build and deploy process. Deployed J2EE applications in WebSphere application server by building and deploying ear file using ANT script. Involved in Code Review, Unit Testing and Integration Testing, Selenium Web Driver. Worked on Oracle 10g for applications containing Annotated EJB3.0 entities relating to JPA. Configured Log4j tool to log the entire application. Environment: Core Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSTL, CSS, AngularJS, JSON, Apache Camel, JMS, XML, XSLT, JDBC, Ajax, React JS, Spring AOP Module, Ant Scripts, WSAD, IBM MQ, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, UML, Rational Rose, WebSphere Application Server 7.0, CVS, JUnit, Ant, Selenium Web Driver, Oracle 10g. Confidential, Minneapolis, MN Java Full Stack Developer Responsibilities: Used Agile methodology and attended daily and weekly SCRUM meetings to update working status etc. Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices to achieve Responsive design using custom CSS media queries and Bootstrap. Designed the application using HTML5, AngularJS, CSS, UI-Grid, Bootstrap, CSS, Web-API, ngroute and responsive web-design that supports mobile environment. Implemented controllers, models and used ng-repeat to render JSON response to DOM Implemented Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts. Extensively used Core Spring MVC Framework for Dependency Injections of components. Worked on Thread handling to maintain continuity of execution and extensively implemented Multithreading concept to handle Transaction Management with isolation and propagation levels. Built microservices with Spring Boot to serve multiple applications across the organization. The data is provided & consumed in JSON Created Hibernate mappings and debug issues related to data integrity Created RFP microserviceto provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot withMicroServices. Developed Microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud. Used a Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot. Used Microservices are designed with the individual database and project with no dependencies. Used Web Logic for design, development, and deployment of applications. Worked onRestWeb services as well as NodeRestframework for backend services, used Mongo DB (NoSQL) for database services and RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation Developed the Web Services Client using REST, RSDL for verifying the new customer history to a connection. Strong Knowledge on Hibernate and in using Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Collections, Hibernate Caching and Hibernate Transactions. Used J2EE design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO and Service Locator etc. Developed RESTfulwebservicesusing Jersey,Springframework and JAX-RS. Created REST based web services by establishing links using HATEOAS from Spring based application. Used Spring core for dependency injection/inversion of control (IOC), and integrated with Hibernate. Spring Boot Microservices were developed with microservice architecture using REST and Apache Kafka. Identified Re-Usable components in all modules and written Re-usable functions using Selenium Web driver and Java / Java Script. Deployed Docker contained Spring boot micro services in to Spring EC2 container service using AWS admin console Experience with building Docker Images and running them on Docker container. DevelopedPythonOO Design code for logging and debugging code optimization. Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Eclipse, maven, Jetty. Used Jenkins as the integration tool and improved scalability of applications on cross-platforms. Used JIRA to keep track of bugs and issues. Using JUnit test in Eclipse, developed Unit test cases and test suite. Curl was also implemented to test Used Maven for build and deployment to Tomcat server and Splunk as log monitoring. Developed Ansible to manage Web applications, Environments configuration, Users, Mount points and Packages. Used Git for version control and JIRA for bug Tracking and Project Management. Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring 4, Hibernate 4.2, Spring Boot, JPA, JavaScript, Angular JS, Typescript, HTML 5.0, CSS3, Node.js, Bootstrap, NPM, Web pack, Swing, Python, UNIX, Apache Tomcat, STS, Oracle 11g, MongoDB, Log4J, JUnit, Selenium, XML, Web Services, SOAP UI, Kafka,Ansible, Splunk, AWS, Git, PL/SQL, Docker, HATEOAS, Curl. Confidential, Herndon, VA Java Programmer Responsibilities: Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON. Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML5, XHTML. Created Dashboards using Java and Servlets along with HTML and JavaScript. Extensively used core Java Collections, Generics, Exception Handling, and Design Patterns for functionality Involved in writing different Design Patterns like Filter, Action, Business Delegate, Service Locater, Data Transfer Objects (DTOs) and Data Access Objects (DAOs) Created Servlets which route submittals to appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information. Developed various EJB components to fulfill the business functionality. Developed Session Beans to process requests from the user and used entity beans to retrieve and update customer Involved in writing the exception and validation classes using Struts validation rules. Implemented the Email module, which included setting up JMS message queue. Used Apache Axis for consuming Web Services. Developed the Web Services Client using REST, RSDL for verifying the new customer history to a connection. Used JDBC/Hibernate in persistence layer of the application. Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application. Persistence layer was implemented using Hibernate Framework. Front-end is designed by using HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, Ajax and Struts. Experience in AngularJS for creating controllers, directives, services and factories in the front-end development. For Responsive Web design used Bootstrap to build grids, layouts and components. Used Bootstrap components like dropdown menus, navigation bar, alerts, and labels. Involved in developing the CSS sheets for the UI Components. Used JavaScript for the web page validation. Written ANT scripts for building application artifacts. Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixing the problems. Wrote P+L/SQL stored procedures, prepared statement and used API. Involved in writing and executing stored procedures, functions and triggers for Oracle to create a Database Gradle build tool used to add dependencies to the project. Used XML with SAX parser to transfer data between applications. Used JUnit for unit testing. Environment: J2EE, Java SDK, XML, SAX, JSP, JMS, HTML, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Eclipse, Web Services, JUnit, Unix, Ajax, EJB, RMI, JNI, WebSphere Application Server, ANT, CVS, Gradle, Oracle 10g. Confidential Java Programmer Responsibilities: Involved in Analysis, design and coding of a Custom Measures Module on Java and J2EE environment. Followed Scrum, TDD methodologies to produce high quality product. Followed the Hibernate and MVC Framework for the development of the application. Followed and developed a system for processing XML formatted, diagnostic messages using Web Services SOAP and JAX-WS. Developed objects persistence (object relational mapping) layer using Hibernate 3. Developed the front-end components using HTML, Java Scripts, JSP, AJAX, JSON, JSF. Deployed and worked with the Web sphere application server for the application development process. Creating JUnit test case design logic and implementation throughout application. Created SQL queries and used PL/SQL stored procedures. Version control is done by using SVN. Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JDBC 3.0, XML, JNDI, Hibernate 3.0, JMS, JSF, WebLogic Application Server 8.1, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, HTML, Junit 4.0, Dojo, Ajax, JavaScript, XML, DOM Confidential Java Programmer Responsibilities: Created SQL queries and used PL/SQL stored procedures. Version control is done by using SVN. Gathered requirements from client, analyzing and preparing the Requirement specification document. Involved in the requirement analysis, design, and development of the new project. Designed and implemented Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action classDispatch action class, Action Form bean, and a form set for validation and used Java Beans to return dynamic information Responsible for setting up Struts-Config.xml file and Action classes. Responsible for integrating Struts-Validator framework into the application Designing and Developing web pages using JSP's, Struts, JavaScript, for generating HTML content using the information returned from the respective Beans. Designed and Developed Front End Using JSP, Struts (Tiles), XML, JavaScript, And HTML. Used Struts Tag Libraries to Create JSP. Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles and Validations provided by strutsframework Using JSP, HTML and CSS developed the frontend user interface. Also carried out validations of user requests using JavaScript Developed APIs to interact with the Oracle database and retrieve the results to display in the front-end. Developed mappings between objects and relational database tables retrieving results from the database using the middleware. Developed front- end interfaces with AJAX support and involved in Error Handling using Struts Exception Handling. Involved in deciding the WEB Service architecture with XML and SOAP for integrating with heterogeneous systems. Created the design using class diagrams and sequence diagrams. Designed and implemented SOAP XML Request and Response, WEB Service WSDL using XML SPY. Implemented WEB Service using Apache SOAP API (2.1), WASD. Developed test cases during the testing phase of the project. Log4j was used for logging errors in the application. Designed and implemented subsystem for administrative tasks (like verify data loads, consistency check and notify clients for data extract) using SERVLETS, session and Entry bean and java classes. Developed JDBC based DAO layer to persist as well as retrieve the data in Oracle database. Deployed the application on JBOSS Application server Used perforce for defect tracking as well as Activity tracking. Involved in debugging with Firebug. Involved in writing Stored Procedures Participated in the code reviews for various initiatives, Performed Static Code Analysis to follow the Best Practices for Performance and Security. Environment: JAVA, Struts,EJB, JDBC, JSP, Java Beans,JBOSS, JDBC, WEB Service, WSDL, XML, HTML,CSS, JavaScript,Servlets, Firebug, PL/SQL. 