SUMMARY 10+ years of experience in Data architecture, Data Assessment and Analysis, Data Profiling, Data Quality, Data Governance, Data Integrations, Standards and Best practices, Data Modeling, Data Management, Metadata Management and DB Performance Management 10+ years of SDLC, Project Management, Delivery Management, Quality Process, Change Management and Deployment process 8+ years of Testing experience in Unit Testing, System/Integration Testing, Performance/Volume testing, DR testing and CMMI Quality framework and defects Management experience 6+ years of Enterprise Architect, Data Architect, Solution Architect, BI&A, Data Warehousing and Advanced Analytics experience 5+ years of product support, SRT, Performance Monitoring, Tuning and Optimization 5+ years of Java and .Net applications development experience 5+ years of SOW process, estimations, bidding and proposals experience 5+ years of DB2, SQL Server and Teradata Database Administration. 5+ years of SAP ECC ERP and BW. 3 + years of Hadoop big data experience including sqoop import/export, HBase, Hive, PIG, Spark, MapReduce and Datameer for data analytics 2+ years of SAP Information Steward, Infopedia and Google Search Appliance 2+ years of Tableau, QlickView, Datameer, SAP BO, MicroStrategy, Power BI and Pivot table 1+ years of AWS cloud services and solution architecture - Associate and Professional Level Strong hands on experience in using Teradata utilities (SQL, B-TEQ, FastLoad, MultiLoad, FastExport, Tpump, Visual Explain and Query man) Good hands on experience in Enterprise integrations (Data Stage, Informatica, and SSIS), Enterprise Application Integrations (Dell Boomi), Dev apps concepts and Leader ship qualities. Proficient in data martdesign and creation of 3NF and Dimensional data modeling. Well versed innormalization/de-normalizationtechniques for optimum performance in OLTP, OLAP, ODS, DDS, BI&A and DW environments. In depth understanding of data warehousing, database design, data architecture, master data management, ODS, OLTP and data integration concepts. Good Hands on experience in Creating Conceptual, Logical and Physical data models for OLTP and OLAP applications. Good Expertise in SAP Power Designer and Erwin data modeling tools. Good Hands on experience in data analytics, data and technology landscape, Data Management and data migration, IT strategies, reference architectures and roadmaps wifin teh data architecture domain based on business strategy, business and IT trends, and current and future architectures. Hands on experience in building current and future state architectures. In-depth knowledge and assessment/POC for new technologies. Industry experience in Healthcare, Taxation, Telecom, Banking, Credit Bureau, Financials and Insurance business environments. Solid communication, Customer facing, presentation, problem solving skills, adaptability to change and analytical skills. Good hands on experience in SDLC, project management, waterfall and agile methodology. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: SAS, R, HIVE, PIG, ANSI & Teradata SQL, C, C++, VB6, Java, Java Script, XML, HTML, REXX and UNIX shell scripting SAP Skills: SAP ECC, SAP BW, Business Objects, SAP Business Suits and SAP HANA Hadoop Skills: Apache Hadoop data platform (HDP), HDFS, YARN, MAP Reduce, PIG, HIVE/HCatalog, sqoop import/export, Spark Amazon Cloud services: Amazon AWS services, AWS Solutions Architect - Associate and professional levels Scheduling Tools: Tivoli Scheduler, CA-7, Autosys, Control M and Priority Scheduler Other Software: FTP, SFTP and NDM MS Office: Power BI, Power Point, MS Project, Excel Macros and Visio Other skills: Project and Delivery Management, Requirements Engineering, Software development process, Software Maintenance and production support, Programming strategies and ISO & CMM-5 quality standards Data Bases: AWS RDS, Redshift, PostgreSQL, SAP ECC, Teradata, Sybase, Oracle, UDB DB2, SQL Server, MySQL and AS400 Operating Systems: IBM-AIX, HP-UX, Sun Solaris, MP-RAS UNIX, Windows, MVS/ESA/OS 390. Modeling Tools/Techniques: CA Erwin Data Modeler, SAP Power Designer, Star, Snow-flake & 3NF Schema. Teradata DBA Tools: WINDDI, Priority Scheduler, Tivoli workload scheduler, PMON, Viewpoint, ARCMAIN, IBM Tivoli TSM Backup, Veritas Net Backup, Tara server and GUI Management Experience: Integration Management, Scope Management, Time and Cost Management, Quality Management, Resource Management, Communication Management Performance monitoring and reporting, Risk Management Overall:  Project Management Life Cycle and Professional Responsibilities PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Dublin, OH Data Architect and Data Modeler Responsibilities: Involved in teh Application Data Architecture, Enterprise Architecture, Data Warehousing Design, Development, Deployment and Administration for Enterprise IT projects Working as cloud solution architect for Cordis data migration projects Working as data architect for Data Landscape assessments Working as data architect for cardinal shared services projects for Medical and Pharma business segments Providing data architecture support for multiple projects across business domains and Technology. Worked as Data modeler and data architect for Pharma SAP HANA BI&A Projects. Worked as data architect for Teradata current state assessment for PMOD journey. Worked wif Information architects on Data Architecture Standards, Process, Procedures, patterns for Business Intelligence (BI), Data warehousing (DW), and Advance Data Analytics (ADA) projects Created and implemented Conceptual, Logical and Physical architecture models for OLTP and OLA systems. Involved physical data models development and deployment activates for business applications that running under different DBMS systems like Teradata, MySQL, SQL server, UDB/DB2, AS/400, Oracle, Sybase and PostgreSQL. Hadoop big data hands on experience including sqoop import/export, HBase, Hive, PIG, Spark, MapReduce and Datameer Good hands on experience wif data Modeling tools like Sybase Power Designer and CA Erwin Strong hands on experience in Database Administration (DBA) skills wif special emphasis on database design, development, deployment and performance tuning and re-use of data models. Involved in Effort estimations, proposal for new database design, data architecture, master data management, ODS, OLTP and data integration design and development activities Good Hands on experience in Software development life cycle (SDLC) for Development, Maintenance/Enhancements and Production support projects, Project Management, Delivery Management, Quality Process, Change/Configuration Management and Deployment process Hands on exposure to Confidential DW applications Technical and functional knowledge Good hands on experience in analysis, design & implementation of logical data models, physical database objects, data conversion, integration, and loading processes. Query and reporting functions. Data management and governance. Usage of Forward and Reverse Engineering Data Modeling techniques. Involved in Implementation of Confidential data base and organization data Modeling standards for various database objects, Data marts and Data Labs and DW projects. Involved in Primary Index (PI), Secondary Index (SI), soft RI, business keys, Stats, MVC compressions, PPI definitions, check constraints, default values finalization for various DBMS like DB2, SQL Server, Oracle, Teradata, MySQL and PostgreSQL. Involved in Database objects Backup, Rollback and DDL scripts preparation, Review and migration support for DEV, TEST, Stage and Production environments. VB macros and automated tools/utilities are developed and used to reduce teh manual efforts and to increase teh productivity. Preparation and Implementation of Data Modeling Standards, Change log, Review check list, Best practices and lesson learned. Report queries analysis and fine tuning for performance issues. Analysis, Design, Development and Deployment of Data warehouse layers like Foundation Layer (3NF Model), Semantic layer (Dimensional Model) and BO Report queries and Views build and deployment. Security (users/Database objects) models design, development and deployment for Confidential major development projects. Confidential, Columbus, OH ETL and Teradata DBA Responsibilities: Actively involved from Requirements till implementation on this ADW project. Involved in ADW Data Modeling, Setup, Design, Development and Administration. Created teh Logical & Physical data models, data administration, ETL design, development, high level, detailed designs, development, UAT and Disaster Recovery Involved in ETL application servers, Report servers and database servers administration, systems Monitoring, Capacity Planning, Performance Tuning and Optimization Administration of databases objects and security, this includes security, database, table, view, macros, stored procedures and user Creation and Deletion, user profiles and roles. Software and Hardware Upgrades for development and production database servers. Performed data storage and management using ARCMAIN archiving and restoring data utility and TSM backups. Involved in setting up weekly automated Multi stream Archive process for all databases in PROD/TEST/DEV Involved in setup of hourly online backups and scheduling using IBM Tivoli workload scheduler. Involved in tape backups setup, mounting and tapes rotation process. Involved in documentation and knowledge transfers to Ohio Dept. of Taxation (ODT) team using share point. Set up a process for data copy between DEV/TEST/PROD environments using fast export and Fast Load, TPT load utilities. Also did lot of data copies using data mover, Archive and Restore batch and online jobs. Implemented migration, purging, retaining 7 years of historical Tax data at any point of time. Monitored teh workflows and developed Unix scripts to automate various process and performance workflows Involved in ETL process for IRS and state feeds that are loaded into Teradata warehouse on daily/weekly/monthly/yearly schedule. Involved in Replication process using Oracle Gloden Gate and Teradata Mover tools. Scheduling support for new job streams and on-call production support for daily/weekly/monthly jobs streams issues/abends. Confidential, Houston, TX DBA/Project Manager Responsibilities: Involved in teh Application Data Architecture, Data Warehousing Design, Development, Deployment and Database Administration for Data Warehousing (DW) Projects Involved in Effort estimations, proposal for new database design, data architecture, master data management, ODS, OLTP and data integration design and development activities Involved in data martdesign and creation of 3NF and Dimensional data modeling, applied normalization/de-normalizationtechniques for optimum performance in relational and dimensional data modeling environments Created and implemented Conceptual, Logical and Physical architecture data models for OLTP and analytical systems based on teh defined user requirements Hands on experience in data modeling tools like Sybase Power Designer and CA Erwin Hands on experience in Database Administration (DBA) skills in TERADATA, DB2 and SQL Server wif special emphasis on database design, development, deployment and performance tuning and re-use of data models. Involved in on call production support, Project and delivery management Researched and evaluated alternative solutions and recommend teh most cost TEMPeffective design solutions. Confidential, Irving, TX ETL Lead/Project Manager Responsibilities: Automated existing manual statements validation and consultation process to generate an exception, fatal errors reports using batch SAS, JCL batch process. Build and deployment ETL jobs for various Interfaces and new data feeds in to FDR applications. Involved in creation of Semantic views and setting teh test database environment Build and Run support for ETL Batch loading jobs. Designed/Developed scripts to move data from teh staging tables to teh target tables Designed teh order of flow for teh execution of teh jobs and scheduling teh jobs. Fine tuning of SQL to optimize teh performance, spool space usage and CPU usage. Responsible for migration and production support. Creating Parameterized macros for various business functions Provided on-call trouble-shooting support for all applications that are running under Data Warehouse Services. Implemented project management life cycle for Build and Run projects. Confidential, Jacksonville, FL Data Modeler/Data Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in transition of teh logical data models to physical data models using Erwin and also reverse engineered teh existing databases to create teh data model for teh old databases. Designed teh ETL process for a Data warehouse, strong experience in UNIX shell scripting and good familiarity in ETL tools. Very strong SQL skills, including unions, set operators, multi-table joins, analytical functions, outer joins, derived tables and SQL tuning. Migrated application databases from DB2 UDB to SQL server Created and implemented logical and physical data models for DB2, SQL server, My SQL and Oracle. Confidential, New York, NY Developer/Project Lead Responsibilities: Provided development, maintenance and production support for Confidential DBG group of applications Converted mainframe legacy applications into java enabled applications using Java, JSP, Servlets and COBOL DB2 RPC calls. Provided nightly batch jobs monitoring and abend fix/On Call support Developed and implemented GUI based VB applications for Confidential DBG group. Provided Build and Run supported for major java development projects. Implemented project management life cycle for Build and Run projects. Confidential Programmer/Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in analysis, design, coding, testing and implementation of new business requirements for Confidential Auto score applications using Java, JavaScript, HTML and DB2. Involved in quality assurance and Unit testing, System testing and Performance testing. Involved in Release Management Provided Build and Run support for Confidential Autoscore applications.