SUMMARY Over 5 years of IT experience on Development, Support and Testing of real time Java Web Applications in clinical, retail and public - sector domains. Strong hands on experience in developing Web-based and client server multitier applications using Java/ J2EE technologies. Experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) involving Requirement Analysis, Design, Coding and Implementation. Worked on various projects using Spring Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture, Struts, Spring AOP, frameworks. Exposure to implement RESTful web services (JAX-RS API) using Jersey wif Path Param, Query Param, Matrix Param, Form Param annotations. Developed REST web services supporting both XML and JSON formats. Exposure to Selenium Automation tool as a part of automating the test cases. Development experience wif multiple IDE's like Eclipse, IBM RAD, JBuilder and Net Beans. Application development experience using multithreading, Serialization, Collection frameworks, Generics, threads and Core JAVA. Database development and implementation experience using different RDBMS such as Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, and MySQL. UsedSpring ORM modules to integrate Spring Framework wif Hibernate and JPA. AOPis used to handle transaction management services for objects in Spring-based application. Implemented SOAP based Web Services to communicate between different distributed components using Apache Axis. Experience in Unit Testing of Java, Java Script using Junit and Mockito. Involved in unit testing and integration testing and interacted wif the QA testing team. Working noledge on Project Management and Defect Tracking tools like JIRA, Clear Quest, HP ALM. Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Procedures, Functions in Oracle, DB2, SQL Server environment and worked on Performance Tuning of Queries. Hands on Experience wif Jenkins as a part of the Continuous Integration process. Experience and involved in Database Design and working wif the Data Modelling Team for modification as per the Application Requirements. Experience in using utilities like ANT, Maven, GIT, Log4j, and JUNIT. Front end development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, AngularJS. Extensive experience in Software Configuration Management using Version Control tools such asGITHUB, CVS, SVNand responsible for various software version releases. Hands on experience on Web/Application sever like Tomcat and JBoss AS/ WildFly. Good Exposure on Design Patters including Data Access Objects, Service Locator, Data Transfer Object and Singleton Skills in analyzing user requirements, modeling the system and ensuring the functionality. Quick Learner, highly motivated team player wif excellent organizational, analytical and communication skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Java 1.6/1.7, J2EE, SQL, C, C++ Markup Languages: HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, XML, XSD, JAXB, JSON Scripting Languages: JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, Node Js, Bootstrap Frameworks: Spring 3.x, Hibernate 4.x, Struts 2.0, JPA, Restful Web Services, Junit 4.x, JSP, Servlets, Log4j, SOAP Databases: Oracle 10g, MySQL, SQL server, Mongo DB, PostgreSQL, SQL Developer Servers: Tomcat, JBoss AS/WildFlys Build Tools: Maven, Ant, Grunt, Graddle Tools: Eclipse IDE, Net Beans IDE, Pega, RAD, Sublime Text, Notepad++, Find Bugs, Brackets, Check style, JIRA, Selenium Version Control: SVN, CVS, GITHUB Operating Systems: Windows, Mac OS, Unix, Linux PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Stow, MA Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, UAT and Production phases of the application. Developed the application implementing Spring MVC Architecture wif Hibernate as ORM framework. Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum. Extensively worked on both consumption & producing of RESTful based Webservices using JAX-RS & jersey parsers. Implemented the project as a multi-tier application using Spring MVC, Spring boot, Microservices & used core Spring concepts like AOP, IOC. Use Spring annotations and XML configuration for Dependency Injection. Implemented navigation using SpringMVC controllers, configured controllers using SpringMVC annotations and configuration files. Developing code for obtaining bean references inSpring Framework using Dependency Injection. Developing services using Java SpringBoot, Hibernate, Restful services. Configuring the Springintegration XML to route request to respective databases. Designed UI pages using JSF v2.2, HTML5, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, JQUERY, AngularJS, JSP, JSON and Tag libraries. Refectories, re-architected, and enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVVM/MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance. Developed an AngularJS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows. Implemented DAOs, entities using Hibernate API and Hibernate QL. Developed applications using the latest Java/ J2EE technologies and worked wif the latest features of Java 8 and Java 7. Implemented Java batch jobs for nightly runs and also worked heavily on concurrency API for a low latency high throughput application Developed several Webservice stubs using AXIS 2.0 engine, SOAP UI, JAX-RPC, WSDL, Document literal. Used Github for efficiently managing the source code versions wif the development team. Used JMS to place the import run requests into JMS Queue. Used Apache Camel in the JBoss Fuse ESB as the integration platform for SOA Services. Developed XSLT files for transforming the XML response from the web service into HTML as per the business requirements and used different XML technologies such as XPATH. Developed the UI screens using HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, jQuery, Angular 2.0 and was involved in resolving cross browser JavaScript issues. Implemented design patterns like DAO, singleton, factory to achieve design principals Worked heavily on PL/SQL writing complex queries, joins, stored procedures and functions. Involved in performance tuning of database and application. Used Hibernate 3.0 ORM framework for persistence to database by integrating it wif Spring framework using Spring Hibernate template. Designed and developed Junit/JMockito test cases during the development phase using TDD principals. Used Jenkins for continuous integration and Maven for building the EAR file. Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JDBC, Rational Application Developer, JBoss AS/WildFly, Spring MVC, AOP, Hibernate, Log4J, Junit, PUTTY, HTML, Jenkins, JavaScript, TOAD, JIRA, SOAP UI, Apache Axis2, Oracle 11g, and Stored Procedures. Confidential, Madison, WI Sr. Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in development and support of Web application build using Spring MVC, hibernate frameworks using Agile/SCRUM methodology environment. Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables wifin time Developed and updated Application context definition to add more features to the existing system. Designed user interface screens wif various custom layouts, buttons, radio buttons, text fields and different form of widgets. Experience in Core Javafor developing Enterprise level applications. Hands on experience in building and developing application using J2EE platform. Good understanding and working noledge in Object Oriented Concepts. Strong experience inSpringFramework such asSpring MVC, IOC, and SpringJDBC. Working experience on SpringBoot implementing Restful services. Utilized Springannotations and XML configuration for Dependency Injection. Experience wif Java8 features such as Lambda Expressions for making inline function calls by using Functional interfaces which makes code readable and concise. Experience in CoreJava-Multithreading, Collections, Generics, Servlets and JDBC. Used Hibernate Annotations and HBM mappings and HQL queries to perform SQL DML operations. Explored Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, andHibernate in creating the POC. Developed DB2 SQL queries,Hibernate HQL queries, configured and maintained JBoss Application server and Hudson Continuous Integration Server. Experience wifJSM and Active MQ. Worked wif development team to create a Multi Module Maven project from ground up. Designed and developed the RESTful based Web Services using Jersey API Made use of Tag Libraries, JSPs, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS to develop the frontend UI, certain features are developed using custom jQuery. JIRA issue tracker is used for tracking various software change requests, performance testing and defects fixing, issues and fixes applied on a daily basis to streamline the application development. Experienced in creating User Stories, Tasks, Subtasks and reviewing code for code quality. Co-ordinated wif QA team for test case review and sign-off. Used GIT and SVN for resource repository for code check-in and checkout. Log4J is used for logging Errors, Exceptions throughout the project. Performed debugging of the application using Log4J and Gradle is used as a build tool. Various OOP practices were used including MVC and Singleton architectures Reviewed source code and design documentation adhering to ISO9000 compliance. Environment: Java 6, JDBC, Spring MVC, Hibernate, XML, JIRA, Oracle, Toad, REST API, JSON, GitHub, SVN, Gradle, Jenkins, Selenium, SQL Server and JBoss AS/WildFly. Confidential, Boston, MA Java Developer Responsibilities: Developed a Web Application using Struts 2.0 MVC and Hibernate frameworks. UsedHibernatefor persistence framework, involved in creating DAO's and used Hibernatefor ORM mapping. Written Javaclasses to test UI and Web services through JUnit. Used Agile Scrum methodology for develop Web Application on an aggressive sprint release cycle. Participated in daily Scrum meetings. Involved in functional requirements review and creating technical design documents and Integration Solution Design documents. Developing Applications using latestJava/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra,Java8, Junit, Cucumber. Common frameworks to handle Errors and Replace timer nodes for SMBC (Sumitomo Mitsue Banking Corporation), achieved using MQ series, WebSphere Message Broker and custom javacode. Message broker services are achieved in the application using Active MQwif JMS framework. Suggesting an appropriate solution for the assigned modules and Problems and also doing their High level and Low-level design. Extensive experience in design and development of J2EE applications using CoreJavaCollections, Data Structures, Multithreading, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, EJB, AJAX, JMS Custom Tag Libraries, JSTL, XML and Web Services. Involved in the process of continuous integration using Jenkins. Involved in unit, system, integration and regression testing. Actively involved in the enhancement, maintenance and design for the application. Working on custom Hibernate queries and custom JDBC SQL to invoking the data base to access accounts of taxpayers. Used Eclipse IDE for development of the project. Web Sphere Application server is used for deployments in all environments. Used SQL for writing the database queries to get the required data for batch jobs and also for the individual account. Consumed SOAP based Web Services to integrate wif the Web Application. Used SVN code repository for Version Controlling. Involved in the development of the presentation tier using JSP, HTML, CSS, XML, jQuery and UI for login, find Subscriptions modules and also for the development of custom online forms. Preparation and review of Unit Test Cases and also batch jobs in ETPM. Involved in Code walkthrough and review process to maintain code coverage and quality. Worked actively in fixing the bugs reported in Test, UAT and Production environments. Implemented Logging functionality using Log4J. Implementing the logic using JSP’s, Servlets for updating the taxpayer information on ETPM. Wrote embedded SQL and Stored procedures for data manipulation and interacting wif the Oracle database. Environment: Java, J2EE Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, HTML, Struts 2.0, EJB, Web Service Client to Internal and External, DAO, Hibernate, JBoss AS/WildFly, Oracle 10g, MVC, CSS, Ant, UI, Maven, Jenkins, jQuery, SOAP, Log4J. Confidential Software Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in requirement gathering, UI design and development. Created a local database SQLite to store and retrieve the data wif JDBC connectivity. Responsible for design of user interface using various custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes, alert boxes and different form of widgets. Worked wif Jenkins for continuous integration process. Played a key role in writing application logic in Java using Eclipse IDE and Android SDK. Designed complex User Interface screens using views and widgets. Involved in debugging and porting the application on various mobiles. Performed debugging application using Logcat. Test the implementation on various handsets such as HTC, Samsung Galaxy. Environment: Java JDK 6.0, Android 2.2 API 8, XML, Android SDK, ADT Plug-in, SQLite Database, JDBC, Eclipse IDE, AVD (Android Virtual Device), Jenkins and JBoss AS/WildFly. 