SUMMARY Software engineer with 10 years of IT experience in Application Development and Maintenance projects with an expertise in object - oriented software development using Java, J2EE technologies. Involved in complete life cycle of software development (SDLC) with Health Care/Insurance/Media/Hi-Tech domains. Hands on experience with Core Java, Java/J2EE, JSP, Spring Technology Stack, Adobe CQ, WebSphere Application Console and Server, Rest Web Services. Worked extensively on spring modules and concepts such as Inversion of Control (Dependency Injection), MVC, JDBC Template and AOP. Possess strong knowledge in Java/J2EE design patterns. Worked on web frameworks such as Struts and other application servers such as Bea WebLogic, also view technologies such as Freemarker. Possess hands on experience with UI technologies such as JavaScript, JQuery, NodeJS, HTML and CSS and various content management tools. Possess excellent knowledge on Adobe CQ system using technologies like Adobe CQ/AEM, Java/J2EE, Eclipse, Splunk, Endeca, Fusion, Akamai server, Sinnaker, Google Cloud Platform, Lucidworks, Dynatrace, Stash, Restful Web Services, Postman, Node JS, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, JDK1.7, Tomcat 7, Mockito, JUnit, JSP, JavaScripts, DB2, Browser debugging tools, Jenkins. Possess good knowledge on build automation tool such as Maven and continuous integration tools such as Jenkins. Worked on Visio design tool. Possess good working knowledge on IDE’s such as Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite and PL/SQL Developer, Splunk logs, Aqua Data Studio. Possess working knowledge in PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, cursors, Indexes and triggers in Oracle. Possess good knowledge on writing automated unit and integration test cases using JUnit, Mockito for mocking and also has experience of using Selenium. Experienced in Rest Web Service development for both Xml and Json datatypes using Advanced Rest Client. Possess fair knowledge on SOA and REST architectural style and design principles. Has knowledge of some basic UNIX commands. Worked on version control tools like SVN, Git, GitHub and WinCVS. Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of both Agile Scrum and Waterfall methodology. Possess working knowledge of Ecommerce Solutions. TECHNICAL SKILLS Language & Technologies: Java, J2EE, JSP, Web Services, REST, Spring MVC, Struts, WebSphere, Weblogic Portals, Maven, XML/XSD, Json, JAXB, JUnit, Mockito, PL/SQL, Html, CSS. Server: WebSphere Application Server, Apache Tomcat, Bea WebLogic Server. Tools: Eclipse, STS, Adobe CQ5/AEM, Apache Maven, Selenium, Sonar, PL/SQL developer, Squirrel SQL Client, Aqua Data Studio, MuleSoft, Jenkins, SVN, Git, WinCVS, SOAP-UI, Version-One, Jira, Service Now Databases: Oracle, PL/SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Sybase NOSQL Database: MarkLogic, Mongo DB, Big Data and Map Reduce technology. SDLC Methodologies: Agile (SCRUM) and Waterfall (SDLC). Operating System: Windows, Unix-Linux. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Senior Production Support Engineer Confidential, Mooresville, NC Responsibilities: Solve Production and Stage issues related to Adobe CQ/AEM in CQ Authors both for Confidential ’s Home Improvement and Confidential ’s For Pros. Develop CQ contents in AEM authors, upload digital assets, upload and edit Confidential ’s banners, Confidential ’s weekly Ads. Supporting complex database objects like Stored Procudures, Functions, Packages, Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL. Monitoring Confidential ’s business in Splunk, Spotlight, Network dashboard, Mpulse etc. Monitoring Dynatrace graphs for CQ CPU, MyLowes CPU, Endeca Response Time, Pricing Services Response time, Data Power Connections, Catalog Services Response Time, Fusion Response Time etc. Upload and manage Confidential ’s digital assets and images from DAM and Scene7. Update in AEM Tools, MSM Control Center to Skip, Unskip, Rollout CQ pages. Maintain mobile blueprint and desktop live copy pages and update, maintain and change the inheritance. Check 12 CQ Publishers, 12 Dispatchers, Akamai cache in both WSDC and SADC side. Confidential ’s mobile and desktop Home pages, Category pages, Landing pages, Store pages, Brand pages, Flyouts are authored in AEM. Querying in Splunk logs to check the status of errors, CQ updates. Solve Production and Stage taxonomy issues, follow up with the taxmap updates. Participate in CQ Author upgrade from AEM 6.0 CRX2 to AEM 6.2, CQ Publisher upgrade from AEM 6.0 CRX2 to AEM 6.2, Dispatcher changes to support new CQ version. Update legacy Confidential ’s Store Hours in CQ Author, upload stores.csv, clear dispatcher cache, clearing Akamai cache. Update Confidential ’s Store Hours in Google Cloud Platform (GCP) by running storeinfo.etl, storedata jobs in Spinnaker. Deploying the project in Spinnaker and check store hours are coming correctly in, Google cloud platform—in Datastore Entities. Websphere Commerce Stores registry refresh, commerce finance registry refresh. Solving issues on NodeJS by debugging NodeJs code base. Solving level3 technical issues by debugging CQ code base for both Confidential ’s Home Improvement and Confidential ’s For Pros. Solve issues related to Confidential ’s Banner not showing on various pages in Adobe Test & Target for Landing pages and Category pages. Solve banner related issues on Confidential ’s Product List pages and Product Detail pages. Check Catalog services (web services) in Postman and Soap UI. Solving issues on Endeca, searching and updating product N values in Endeca search engine. Solving issues related to Fusion rules on Lucidworks. Check and solve AEM issues from Author to Publisher to Dispatcher, Origin, Akamai server and production. Checking in and checking out codes from Stash. Senior Java J2EE Production Support Engineer Confidential, Raleigh, NC Responsibilities: Participated in requirements meetings with the stakeholders to define requirements for Intake of NC Child services application and the new HealthCare application. Supported and developed code in Java/J2EE. Supported Production and Stage issues. Supported restful Services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot and Micro Services Architecture. Wrote JUnit test cases for automatic Regression Testing of the API using Mockito. Wrote many web services using both JSON and Xml datatypes. Created the base project code using UI layer, Façade layer, Service and Repository layer Classes, Interfaces and Aspects for Handling Exceptions and Logs (used across all Facades, Service and Repository layers). Has supported Restful WebServices both in JSON and XML datatype. Used Java APIs JAXB, JAX-RS, marshalling and unmarshalling. Connection with cloud AWS, S3 bucket. Supported Case Management codes for capturing Cases for Child Welfare Services, Child Abuse etc. Supported code to build and modify Contact Logs for the Intake, Investigation and Ongoing cases for Child Welfare. Supported codes for Person Search, Case Search and various screens on Case Management application. Modelled Custom Struct, Facades and Service Layers, Aggregation relationship between the OOTB Struct and Custom Struct, complex class diagrams, modelling custom methods in IBM RSA. Involved in setting up infrastructure including hardware, configuration, builds and scheduling power shell scripts for Windows environments. Worked on the Case Management, Contact Logs, Intake, Investigation, Ongoing cases. Worked with WebSphere ESB mediation modules flow components Routing, Database lookup, Database logging and Structure transformation. Apache tomcat 7.0 for deploying some new applications. Worked on the creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring Boot. Used chrome, explorer and firefox debugging tools. Used Jenkins for the nightly builds and continuous integration. Conducted peer code reviews and also got my code reviews by others in formal meetings. Querying database. Fixing defects of the applications. Agile Scrum methodology, completing stories in every Sprint of 4 weeks. Java Application Developer and Production Support Engineer Confidential, Louisville, KY Responsibilities: Wrote and supported eight Rest web services for the Ecommerce Api solution of the company Supported and solved Production and Stage issues related to Ecommerce Api solution. The Rest web services uses both JSON and Xml datatypes SOA based architecture. Store Front development using Web Content Management for vendors such as Hyatt, Charming Charlie, PacSun, National Amusement Supported Micro Services based business components and Restful service endpoints using Spring boot Store Front development in content management tools using Html, CSS. Followed standard Spring MVC by writing Controller, Service and Repository to call SOA at backend. Created the base project code using Spring MVC which includes Interceptor, Base Controllers, Base Service and Repository layer Classes, Interfaces and Aspects for Handling Exceptions and Logs (used across all Controllers, Service and Repository layers). Used SLF4J (Simple Logging Facade for Java) for logging. Wrote JUnit test cases for automatic Regression Testing of the API using Mockito. Developed and supported frontend applications using Java/J2EE, Spring MVC, JSP, Spring Boot Supported functions in java scripts and used JQuery events in front end development. Maven is used for build automation of all the applications IBM WebSphere Application Server 8.5.5.6 for deploying the applications. Apache tomcat 7.0 for deploying some new applications. Apache applications deployment in MuleSoft. Used Java APIs JAXB, JAX-RS. Working directly on Apache Tomcat migration of projects from WebSphere Application Server. Wrote and updated design documents for almost all new applications. Used Spring AOP for injecting the beans and logging. Used chrome, explorer and firefox debugging tools. Used Jenkins for the nightly builds and continuous integration. Conducted code reviews and also got my code reviews by others in formal meetings. Querying database. Application Development of the store fronts of the Ecommerce Solution Testing Stores both in browsers and mobile devices for responsive design. Provide production support of the applications. Agile Scrum methodology, completing stories in every Sprint of 15 days. Java Production Support Engineer Confidential Responsibilities: Supported TEI application from beginning in Java/J2EE in spring framework. Supported the application following standard Spring MVC model ie. Controller, Service, Dao. Supported Production and Stage issues. Supported Calling database from Dao using JDBC. Used Maven as a build automation tool and SVN as repository. Enhanced and maintained the existing Monarch application in Java/J2EE and Struts framework. Worked in Struts design patterns, Action Class, Delegate, Façade, Dao for old applications. Bea Weblogic 8.1 and 10.3 for deploying the applications. Created the base project code using Spring MVC which includes Interceptor, Base Controllers, Base Service and Repository layer Classes, Interfaces and Aspects for Handling Exceptions and Logs (used across all Controllers, Service and Repository layers). Wrote JUnit test cases with stubs and mocks using Mockito. Code coverage with EclEmma. Querying database in PL/SQL developer. Making simple changes in Stored Procedures. Gathering technical and business requirements from client to build, maintain and enhance existing and new Web Applications. Production support of the applications. Java Production Support Engineer Confidential  Responsibilities: Enhancement and supported code for Wiley Online Library. Supported the application in Java/J2EE, Spring MVC. Used NoSQL database such as MarkLogic and view technologies such as free marker. Followed standard Spring MVC by writing Controller, Service and Dao calls using Hibernate. Complex database calling as the database consists of one RDBMS which was Sybase using Squirrel SQL Client to keep meta data information and one actual database to keep contents(such as journals, papers) of Wiley Online Library in Xml format in a NoSQL database called MarkLogic. Created the base project code using Spring MVC which includes Interceptor, Base Controllers, Base Service and Repository layer Classes, Interfaces and Aspects for Handling Exceptions and Logs (used across all Controllers, Service and Repository layers). Used Maven as build automation tool and SVN and Git as repository. Wrote JUnit test cases for each piece of development using Mockito, coverage with EclEmma. Wrote Integration test cases and ran them with commands in Maven. UI testing of each piece of development with Selenium. Used Sonar for Code Quality Management. Used Tomcat for deploying applications, starting server with Jetty Fixture. Working experience on XML, XSD, XSLT. Some knowledge of XPath and XQuery to query MarkLogic database. Linux based operating system Fedora 17. Agile Scrum development methodology and using JIRA for uploading stories, technical analysis etc. Java/Web Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Wrote application in Java/J2EE in Eclipse. Used IBM WebSphere application server for deployment of applications. Used JDBC connection and PL/SQL developer as database. Worked on customizing IBM ECommerce application. Some knowledge of Unix/Linux. Web Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Developed Site, Site areas in IBM Web Content Management Tool. Developed Workflows, Authoring templates, Presentation templates, Contents and various components such as image, file resource, Menus, Navigators. Wrote codes in HTML, CSS and some Java Script, PHP. Made the Confidential and Confidential Portal with pagination and page navigation to different pages. Attached videos and images in the web application.