SUMMARY 10 years of experience in design, development, maintenance and support of Java/J2EE applications. Working knowledge in multi - tiered distributed environment, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC). Experience in working in both Windows and UNIX platforms including programming and debugging. Extensive experience in Java/J2EE programming - JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL,JMS. Expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Front Controller, Session Facade, Business Delegate and Data Access Object for building J2EE Applications. Experienced in web development using HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript and AJAX technologies. Experienced in developing MVC framework based websites using Struts and Spring. Experience in building web applications using Spring Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), IOC (Inversion of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) and template classes. Expertise in Object-relational mapping using Hibernate. Experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, and XMLBeans. Experience in installing, configuring, tuning IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x, BEA Web Logic 8.1/9.1, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x. and JBoss 6.x. Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD)for Java/J2EE application development. Expertise in database modeling and development usingSQL, PL/SQL in Oracle (8i, 9i and 10g), DB2 and SQL Server environments. Experience in using ANT and Maven for build automation. Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like TFS, SVN, CVS and Subversion. Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows 98 / 2000 / NT / XP. Proficient in software documentation and technical report writing. Versatile team player with good communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: Java, PL/SQL, Unix Java/J2EE Technologies: Angular, Angular2 Spring, Struts, Servlets, JSP 1.2/2.0, JMS. Restful Webservices Web Development: HTML5, CSS, Java Script, AJAX Frameworks: Struts 1.x/2.x, Hibernate, Spring 2.5/3.0 XML: XML, XSD, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JAXB, XMLBeans Messaging Technologies: JMS Application/Web Servers: JBoss 6.x, IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x, BEA Web Logic 8.1/9.1, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x Methodologies/Design Patterns: OOP, MVC2, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Facade Databases: Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server 2000/2005, IBM DB2 IDEs: Eclipse, RAD, WSAD PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Dallas Sr. Java Developer Responsibilities: Created a custom, single-page, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application. Implemented Restful Web services to send order details to downstream systems using JAX-RS, JAXB and Spring. Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using core java Designed and implemented customized exception handling to handle teh exceptions in teh application. Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations. Primarily focused on teh spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers and Model Objects. Implemented teh application following teh J2EE best practices and patterns. Developed Business components using Java Objects. Implemented Singleton, Service Locator design patterns in MVC framework and developed command, delegate, model action script classes to interact with teh backend. Designing teh front end using HTML5, AngularJS and CSS as per teh requirements that are provided. Used AngularJS2 markups for developing front end of teh application. Extensively used AngularJS with JSON Objects. Implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR & dependency JARS and deploy teh entire project onto teh JBoss Application Server Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture and coded Java Beans (as teh model) Implemented version controlling using TFS. Involved in bug fixing during teh System testing, Joint System testing and User acceptance testing. Deliver new and complex high quality solutions to clients in response to varying business requirements Environment: AngularJS, Restful Web services, HTML5, Jdk 1.7, Spring 2.5/3.0, Eclipse Kepler, JBoss Application server 6.x., JDBCTemplate, TFS, Log4j, Oracle10g, TOAD, UNIX and Maven. Confidential, Nashville Sr. Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in teh complete Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance. Deliver new and complex high quality solutions to clients in response to varying business requirements Utilize in-depth knowledge of functional and Technical experience in Java/J2EE and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using core java Designed and implemented customized exception handling to handle teh exceptions in teh application. Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations. Used spring validation and wrote validation rules. Primarily focused on teh spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects. Implemented teh application following teh J2EE best practices and patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Façade, MVC and DAO. Developed Business components using Java Objects and used Hibernate framework to map teh Java classes to teh database. Implemented Singleton, Service Locator design patterns in MVC framework and developed command, delegate, model action script classes to interact with teh backend. Designing teh front end using JSP, JQuery,CSS and Html as per teh requirements that are provided. Extensively used JQuery selectors, events, Traversal and Jquery AJAX with JSON Objects Developed Hibernate DAO classes and with teh spring frame work manager classes retrieve and save teh data from teh database. Used Spring IOC framework to integrate with Hibernate. Implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR & dependency JARS and deploy teh entire project onto teh WebSphere Application Server Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture and coded Java Beans (as teh model. Developed payment flow using AJAX partial page refresh, validation and dynamic drop down list. JQuery library has been used for creation of powerful dynamic Web Pages and web applications by using its advanced and cross browser functionality. Implemented Web services to send order details to downstream systems using JAX-RS, JAXB, and Spring. Implemented version controlling using SVN. Implemented log4j for logging purposes and debug teh application. Designed an automated module for performing repetitive tasks like checking URL status / response time etc. Designed and developed teh application presentation layer using JSTL. Prepared Junit test cases and executed teh test cases using Junit in eclipse. Involved in bug fixing during teh System testing, Joint System testing and User acceptance testing. Supported teh application during teh warranty period. Confidential Sr. Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in teh complete SDLC for multiple applications (individual projects). Designed, developed, debugged and tested teh web based application using teh J2EE architecture. Performed Application Demo’s to teh end clients. Developed WS-Security based Web Services to interact. Understanding and analyzing business requirement. Designed and developed teh User Interface using JSP, Servlets and Java for both Business Logic and GUI development. Implemented client side data validations using JavaScript and Server side data validations. Developed & deployed teh application in Web sphere Application Server. Involved in teh design and development of XML presentation. Created XML Schema, XML template and XSL. Involved in teh design and development of XML presentation using CSS & XSLT. Formulated Use Cases for each business requirement and normalized teh use cases to suit teh requirements. Teh UML use case designs are developed using and Rational Software Architect v7.0/6.0. Developed SQL, PL/SQL with Stored Procedures to interact with Persistent database using Oracle 10g. Confidential Software Developer Responsibilities: Provided technical guidance to business analysts, gathered teh requirements and converted them into technical specifications/artifacts. Implemented Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC and AOP technologies. Implemented teh business layer by using Hibernate with Spring DAO and also developed mapping files and POJOjavaclasses using ORM tool. Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve teh data and did other database configurations using Hibernate. Developed stored procedures, Triggers and Functions to process teh trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables sitting on Oracle Database. Designed and developed Customer registration and login screens using JSP, HTML/DHTML and JavaScript. Developed web pages to display teh account transactions and details pertaining to that account using JSP, DHTML, Struts Web Flow, AJAX and CSS. Wrote application front end with HTML, JSP, Ajax, custom JSP tags for role-based sorting and filtering and used JavaScript validations to validate teh fields of teh user registration screen and login screen. Used jasper reports for generating customer reports. Configured Struts to manage Action classes and set their dependencies in a Struts config file. Servlets are used to service requests from UI to manipulate Business Objects and invoke respective Action Classes for making database updates. Used log4j for tracking errors and debugging teh code. Wrote build deployment scripts using ANT, shell scripts on Unix env and deployed teh application in WebSphere App Server. Developed Messaging frame work for Asynchronous service using JMS. Involved in implementing Branching Methodology Plan and performed Checkin/Checkout in Subversion. Developed various activities like transaction history, search products that enable users to understand teh system efficiently. Involved in unit testing and system testing and also responsible for preparing test scripts for teh system testing. Environment: Java,J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, Struts XML, HTML/DHTML, JMS, AJAX, WebSphere, JUnit and Oracle. Confidential Software Developer Responsibilities: Working as a ColdFusion developer and implement teh functionality based on documentation. Maintaining teh code and enhance teh issues. Doing teh unit testing before send to testing team. Maintaining and fixing teh issues from backend. Perform to achieve teh scheduled deadlines Help fellow team members on technical issues Confidential Software Developer Responsibilities: Working as a ColdFusion developer and implement teh functionality based on documentation. Maintaining teh code and enhance teh issues. Doing teh unit testing before send to testing team. Maintaining and fixing teh issues from backend. Perform to achieve teh scheduled deadlines Confidential Software Developer Responsibilities: Working as a ColdFusion developer and implement teh functionality based on documentation. Maintaining teh code and enhance teh issues. Doing teh unit testing before send to testing team.