SUMMARY Around 9+ years of IT experience in the field of Java and in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance of Web Based, Client Server and N - tier Architectures. Experience in J2EE Design patterns and frameworks like spring, Hibernate, and iBatis. Expertise in developing both front end & back end applications usingJava, Servlets, JSP, ANT, AJAX, EJB, Hibernate, JMS, JDBC, XML, and Web Services. Experience in object-oriented analysis, design, and hands-on experience inJavaSDK, JDBC 2.0, EJB, JMS, JNDI, Spring, JSF, Hibernate, Web Services (UDDI, SOAP, WSDL), XML (SAX, DOM), JAX-WS, AXIS, HTML. Extensive experience wif Development and Testing methodologies like SCRUM/Agile Team Development and Test-Driven Development (TTD) using JUnit and JIRA. Good experience in configuring, deploying applications using Weblogic, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss Servers. Strong exposure working wif J2EE design patterns like MVC, Front Controller, and Factory Design pattern, Value Object, Singleton and Proxy Design Pattern. Strong experience in Prototype and project layout skeletons using React.JS, JQuery, and HTML5. Designed and developed several applicants in IntelliJ IDEA using Spring 3, Spring Security, Spring WebFlow2, Hibernate, Ajax, HTML, JSP, JSTL, JSON, JQuery, Log4J, Restful, MySQL, DB2, Maven, JUnit Excellent experience wif CoreJavatechnologies like Multithreading, Collections, and Exceptions. Experience in build tools like Maven, Ant, Gradle & also worked extensively in AWS. Sound knowledge on IBM and Sun JavaVirtualMachine (JVM) and its Internals, Java Runtime Environment (JRE), Java Development Kit (JDK) and Garbage Collection (GC) Concepts. Experience in implementing ORM tools like Hibernate, iBatis, Sql, Oracle11g. Experience wif servers like WebLogic and WebSphere, and designed Low-Level and High-Level design documents. Experience in developing websites using HTML 4.0/5.0, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript. Experienced in developing event-driven applications using AJAX, JSON and XML. Worked wif the JavaScript frameworks like JQuery and AngularJS. Detailed understanding of DOM and DOM functions. Hands on Experience in databases such as MYSQL, Microsoft SQL Server, ORACLE. MongoDB (No Sql). Strong experience in RDBMS technologies like SQL, Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions. Developed Oracle based stored procedures using PL/SQL. Good experience in identifying actors, use cases and representing UML diagrams. Experience in working wif JavaScript frameworks like Bootstrap and AngularJS. Proven expertise in implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO) and experienced in integrating Spring Web Flow wif other frameworks like JSF. Implemented various Ajax Frameworks such as jQuery, DOJO, JSON, XML. Designed and developed various integration components using JMS. Coordinating and tracking all projects for seamless releases using Project Management System, Source Code Management System SVN and Document Management System SharePoint Experience in implementing SOA architectures wif web services using WSDL, SOAP, and UDDI. Configured logging tool using log4J. Managed version control using CVS, VSS, SVN, GitHub, Git. Good experience in implementing Caching strategies and proven expertise in configuring JBOSS Cache provider wif Web sphere 6.1. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: CoreJava, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL Enterprise Java: JSP, Servlets, JNDI, JDBC, Log4J API,Javasecurity Mark-up/XML Technologies: HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, AJAX, JQuery, JSON Tools: & Framework: Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JSF, JUnit, Jasper reports, SOAP UI, Web services SOAP, Restful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis2 Web/App Servers: WebSphere, Apache, Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic Database: Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, TOAD IDEs: Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM Web Sphere Rational Architect, O-R mapping Hibernate 3.x/4.x Modeling/ Case Tools: Rational Rose, MS Visio Professional Testing Tools: JUnit, SoapUI, Rational Clear Quest Version Control: CVS, SVN, Rational Clearcase, Git OS & Environment: Windows 8/7/Vista/XP, Sun Solaris, UNIX, Linux Design Patterns: MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Richmond, VA Full stack developer Responsibilities: Designed and developed the application using Agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum, Scrum Master, pair programming. Wrote Technical design document wif the class, sequence, activity diagrams in each use case. Designed the system based J2EE technology Spring MVC Model architecture. Developed a business logic layer using Spring Framework and integrated Hibernate. ImplementedAngularSingle Page Application(SPA) and TransformingAngular1.4 toAngular2. Implemented Angular2 Components to maintain each view data. Using AngularJS2Router to build single page application for navigate through the different models and components. Customized Angular2 JS filters in several locations to get the required output. UsedAngular2JS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating wif Restful services. Designed and developed Business components and Integrated wif Spring framework. Wrote data Components for Plan Setup wrote and called Stored Procedures usingJava, HQL and Hibernate. Involved in configuring and integrating Spring and Hibernate frameworks. Involved in design and implementation of MVC architecture in different modules. Good knowledge in DevelopedJavaAPI to connect wifAWSS3 Services for storing and retrieving data stored in the S3 buckets. Involved in writingJavaAPI for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services. Responsible for writing utility classes, UI development using JSP, CSS3, HTML, JavaScript, Angular2. Integrated business layer using Hibernate wif Spring DAO. Used Angular2 JS to make Ajax calls or Restful Calls to get data in JSON Format. Responsible for working on consuming and producing SOA/Web Services. Designed and Developed web services using JAX-WS, SOAP, JAXB, Apache CXF. Exposing and consuming the web services to the downstream applications using Apache CXF and react Implemented Angular2 JS Service layer wif utility functions to get data from back end using Rest based service calls and pass back to Angular2 Components. Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server-side exceptions. Developed code inJavawhich creates mapping in Elastic Search even before data is indexed into Build REST web service by building red Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls. Used MongoDB to import the data into and feed into web services and displayed it onto the browser. Used Spring Batch to build the POJO-based development approach of the Spring Framework. Wrote the DAO's to access the database using JDBC calls. Involved in writing REST Web services in Groovy/Grails wrapped by Jersey JAX-RS. Implemented Spring Bean Factory to create proxied object using AOP framework. Used AngularJS Global API to perform tasks like Comparing objects, iterating objects and Converting data. Implemented SOA architecture wif Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML. Responsible for configuring and deploying the builds on Tomcat Web Server. Used AngularJS service to read data from remote servers. Worked on JavaScript framework to augment browser based applications wif MVC capability. Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation wifin the forms. Used GIT version control system for tracking changes made to the files between people. Actively participated in Testing, debugging and troubleshooting the existing code using Firebug and Developer Tools. Extensively used GIT as the version controlling Tool. Involved in Unit & Integration Testing for different Modules in the application. Wrote build & deployment scripts using ANT, Maven, shell scripts on Unix environment. Environment: J2EE/J2SE, Java 7.0, 8.0, Java Script, Angular, Angular 2, Spring Frame Work, Spring Batch, Hibernate, JDBC, JMS, Apache Axis 2.0, Typescript, MongoDB, Tomcat Web servers, Docker, CSS3, HTML, JAX-WS, SOAP, JAXB, Apache CXF, Microservices. Spring Boot, JavaScript, JSON, WSDL, SOA, SOAP, XML, Log 4j, Oracle, UNIX, ANT, Shell Script, Maven and Windows 7. Confidential, Holland, MI Java Full Stack Developer Responsibilities: Designed the Web Application Using Spring MVC (Model View Controller) pattern to make it extensible and flexible. Analyzed, designed, implemented web based application usingJava, JPA, JSP, Spring, XML, and SQL. Used Agile methodologies during the complete project life cycle. Helped in preparing the design documents like process flow, sequence, component diagram. Implemented DIM Web service using Spring Framework. Used Agile methodology XP for development using User Stories. Used annotations in the complete project development, web services, MVC design. Used JMS for consuming pin verification, device connect disconnect messages. Used JPA as data persistence API for all the DAO, database operations. Involved in performing Cassandra tables wif different replication strategies and mappings and writing CQL queries and interacted wif the DB using Cassandra template. Generated Hibernate Objects, and used Hibernate ORM for SOTI Publisher application. Used Maven project management tool for build and deployment of the application. Used Spring quartz timer to load the DIM data base wif device battery information on regular intervals of time. Developed Spring REST Web services for opening, closing the locker door web service operations. Client-Side code were written in React.JS, jQuery and Server-Side Code were developed using MVC4. Part of an agile team re-developing an existing web application using Ember.JS framework front-end and Perl Restful API backend for data layer. Work mostly in the front-end building UI components in Ember, using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap framework for templating and JavaScript/Ember.JS for client-side functionality Wrote lots of JSP's for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets, JSP and backend using Hibernate. Developed the presentation and controller logic for the screens related to my user stories using JSPs, HTML, bean and form tag libraries. Developed code for user stories (based on user requirements) and successfully approved it from QA Used Spring Cache Abstraction and Eh cache to reduce the number expensive executions. Developed rule modules using Rule Engines, Drools. Used Subversion(SVN), Clear Case as source controls. Involved in write application level code to interact wif APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML. Established continuous integration (CI) practices and standards for PSCU wif Jenkins. Spring XML configuration for Camel Integration to messaging XML documents. Front end development utilizing HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript leveraging the Bootstrap framework and aJavabackend Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features. Parse XML documents like Device Connect, disconnect messages using JAXB. Used Microsoft Visio to design the work flows and sequence diagrams, class diagrams. Writing unit and integration tests wif Mockito framework. Used Elastic Search as backend for developing an analytics solution to customers. Optimized the full text search function by connecting to Oracle and Elastic Search. Designed and implemented the UI components using Ext JS for file storage and maps using Open layers. Involved in Testing in Agile Development Environment, Using TDD and ATDD approach. Involved in deployment of the application at various environments (Development, Testing, Staging, and Production). Used log4j for logging. Environment: JDK 1.6, Agile, Spring, Cache Abstraction, REST Web Services, tomcat 6, Cassandra, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Drools, JPA, Maven, JUnit, Log4j, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, React.JS, Ember.JS, JSON, JMS, DB Visualizer, WebLogic, UML, Mockito, JSP, XML, JAXB, Unix, Subversion(SVN), Jenkins Confidential - MI Java J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Designed the user interface screen and its functionality as per user requirements. Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap, Less, CSS3(SASS) and AJAX. Created responsive UI modules using Backbone.JS, Handle Bar JS. Used Angular JS -1.x to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data wif server as a Single Page Applications. Used many Angular JS-1.x directives which allow developing many custom and reusable HTML for data binding and behavior of components. Used Backbone JS to utilize its rendering functions and create controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server. Tested JavaScript using Jasmine frameworks. Gulp used for modification of JavaScript files and for monitoring the application. Developed application on Spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Boot, Spring Dependency injection, Spring Beans, Spring Security, Spring JPA, Spring Web flow using MVC Used Spring Transactions in the application and developed Session beans for the business logic at the middle tier level. These applications need to maintain privacy and restrict illegal users. To achieve the functionality, we used Spring Security. We kept up bean life cycle by utilizing Spring IOC which keep up session information of beans. Implemented Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns. Hibernate ORM framework used to interact wif database through Hibernate query language(HQL). Apache CXF helps you build and develop services using frontend programming APIs, like JAX-WS and JAX-RS. Developed RESTful Services and Web Service Clients (JAX-RS or JAX-WS) wif data representation in different formats such as XML and JSON. Implemented WADL configuration and API documentation for the understanding of Rest based Web services. Used Maven build tool to deploy the application on web servers me.e. JBoss. Jenkin CI/CD tool configured for continuous integrating and deploying application on servers. Configuring and managed public/private cloud infrastructure utilizing Amazon Web Services like Amazon Ec2, Amazon S3. Implemented ODBC which is used for connecting to the database Oracle. Integrated testing methods implemented by using Karma and Jasmine. Implemented various Business rules in the drl (droolsfile) usingDroolsruleengine. JIRA tool for project management used in the application to tack bugs, issues and project management functions. Environment: Angular JS, JavaScript, Backbone.JS, Handle Bar JS, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Bootstrap, JMS, jQuery, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring IOC, Hibernate, JAX-RS or JAX-WS, WADL, Maven, Jenkin, Amazon Ec2, Amazon S3, Oracle, Drools. Confidential Software Engineer Responsibilities: Designed and developedjavabackend batch jobs to update the product offer details. Did CoreJavacoding and development using Multithreading and Design Patterns. Did CoreJavadevelopment and Support ofJava/J2EE applications wif emphasis on OOP-based web forms, business logic, database access components. Preparing technical specifications, test plans for unit testing. Integrating cross browser compatible applications and secure payment gateways in the website Involved in writing and invoking the Spring MVC calls. Worked on UI using JSP, Html, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS Involved in Drawing Case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagram for each scenario. The application is designed using J2EE design patterns and technologies based on MVC architecture. Installed WebSphere Application Web Server for handling HTTP Request/Response. The request and response from the client are controlled using Session Tracking in JSP. Developed EJB’s and deployed them on IBM WebSphere Application server. EJB Session Beans were used to process request from user interface using OSS. Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural pattern using STRUTS framework including JSP, Servlets, and EJB. Developed session, entity beans and message driven beans. Extensively used JavaScript for client-side validations and for capturing dynamic events. Implemented Web Services to integrate between different applications using SOAP services using JAX-WS Used ANT build tool for compilation and generation of war file. Loading data from Text Files to Database by using SQL Loader. Developed the modules using Servlets, Java2EE and JDBC for connecting wif MySQL. Developedstoredprocedures, triggers inMySQLfor lowering traffic between servers & clients Performance tuning of JVM heap size,garbagecollections,javastack and Native thread & production performance. Deployed Application using Oracle Weblogic Server. Environment: XSLT, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, IBM WebSphere Application server, Web Services, ANT, SQL Loader, Servlets, Java2EE, JDBC, garbagecollections, Oracle Weblogic Server. 