SUMMARY Around 8.2 years of experience in IT industry with strong experience in Web content management (WCM) & J2EE development technologies with solid experience of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) as well as Test - Driven Development (TDD) in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Over 4.5 years of hands on experience in development of content management solutions using Adobe AEM Content Management System. Excellent work experience in AEM 6.4, AEM 6.3, AEM6.1, AEM 6.0, AEM 5.6.1. Developed custom experience fragment templates, editable templates, and content fragment model. Good Conceptual knowledge of AEM and Java/J2EE. Work experience with Content Fragments, Experience Fragments, and Asset Editor. Experience in developing Editable Templates, Custom Components, creating and launching Workflows and customizing out of the box Widgets. Hands-on experience in implementing functionalities using technologies like Sling, OSGi, Felix, Jackrabbit, JCR, and current AEM functionalities of integrated products. Hands-on experience in Front-End user interface design using AJAX, Bootstrap for responsive designs. Setting up run mode based Author, Publish instances and configurations. Setting up and adding rules in dispatchers. Implementation knowledge of i18n on Components and Dialogs. Sightly HTL coding for components. Using client libraries in the project. Worked on Dispatcher configuration and Load balancing. Experience in creating Workflow packages and using Tag Manager for reading tags from pages. Rich experience in Web Services such as SOAP and RESTful services. Proficient in configuration, implementation and integration of Enterprise Multi-tier Web Application with J2EE Frameworks, such as spring, Hibernate, Struts. Rich experienced in writing SQL queries with RDBMS skills in MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle, etc. Hands-on experience using development IDEs including Eclipse, Net Beans and used MAVEN as build tool. Efficient in using Junit for unit testing, jmockit framework. Expertise in building client side Middle Tier Development environment using JSP, Servlet, Java Mail, etc. Experience in version control software such as Git, SVN and in tracking tool as JIRA. Adaptable to changing requirements and environments. Team-player with strong work ethic. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Core Java, J2EE(JSP, Servlets) Scripting/Markup Languages: HTML, XML, Sightly HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery,AngularJS CMS Platforms: AEM 6.4, 6.3,6.1,6.0 AEM 5.6.1 Framework: Spring, Struts, EJB, Hibernate Build Tools: Maven, Ant, Jenkins IDE: Eclipse, IntelliJ Tracking Tools: JIRA Version Control: SVN, GIT OS: Windows 98/XP/7/8/10, Linux, Mac OS X App Servers: Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere 6.1, JBoss, WebLogic Web Server: Apache 2.2 Database: Oracle, MySQL Domain: Insurance, Banking Design: UML PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Pittsburgh, PA Senior AEM Developer Responsibilities: Created components using Sightly HTL Language. Migration from AEM 6.1 to AEM 6.3 instance (2017). Migration from AEM 6.3 to AEM 6.4 instance (2018). Working on the performance issues by analyzing heap dump and thread dumps. Worked on Content Fragments Model and Content Fragments. Worked on Experience Fragments customization Implemented Image renditions for continuous and consistent experience of content across all devices. Creating Oak indexes for making search execution faster in AEM. Integrated TSFS system with Workflow functionalities. Writing activation and deactivation workflow models using various components such as process, participant, and dynamic participant steps. Used SCR annotations while creating servlets, schedulers, listeners, workflows. Implemented AEM Dev Tools to make development easier. Experienced in AEM and associated technologies like Sling, OSGi, Felix, Jackrabbit, JCR, and CRX. Created Resource Resolver rules in Felix console by having a custom URL mapping Implemented i18n for components and dialogs for translation in to different languages. Created custom OSGi services and servlets using Eclipse IDE with Maven. Created AEM templates and page components with custom dialogs. Managed Users, Groups, and System Users and Access Control Level (ACL) permissions. Troubleshoot of caching issues related to Dispatcher and browsers. Integrated ACS AEM Commons with AEM 6.1 for Bulk oak indexing. Developed mobile site Dialog and mobile Template. Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages. Created OSGi bundles and resolved dependencies for the project. Created Custom loggers in Felix Console. Environment: AEM 6.1, 6.3, 6.4, Java (JDK 1.8), Eclipse, Maven, Log4J, Apache Felix, Apache Sling, JSP, TSFS, Web Services, SDLC, OSGi, Servlets, Sightly HTML, JavaScript, Brackets, Jackrabbit. Confidential, MN AEM Developer Responsibilities: Created AEM Components with Custom Dialogs and with cacheable responses. OSGi bundle containing components is created and OSGi services are accessed from AEM components. Worked on MSM blueprints and live copies, Created live action classes and custom rollout configs. Working on sightly based touch UI components and templates. Creating Oak indexes for making search execution faster in AEM. Migration of AEM instances from AEM 6.0 to AEM 6.1. Managed OSGi configuration within the CRX repository. Proficient in AEM foundational concepts, including the CRX repository, the AEM platform, the use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix. Workflows are configured with custom steps and implemented in the project. Working knowledge on Importing, Exporting AEM Packages using package manager. Users and groups were created and permissions to them were managed. Configured replication agent and dispatcher for caching and load balancing. Used Client libraries to minify JavaScript and CSS into one common file and load it on page load. Maven is used to build and deploy OSGi bundles. Dispatcher is configured to cache responses from an AEM publish instance, to increase the responsiveness and security of the externally facing published website. Managed SDLC processes and associated artifacts. GIT is used for version control and JIRA is used for tracking. Environment: AEM 6.0, AEM 6.1, Java (jdk1.6, 1.7), JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery Confidential, CA AEM Developer Responsibilities: Designed and developed AEM building blocks including Templates, Components, Dialogs, Widgets, and Workflows. Installed and configured version 5.6.1AEM author and publish instances. Installed CRXDE Integrated development environment and Configuration of the project with Subversion version control. Participated in advising on business planning and execution functions for AEM systems Design and development of web pages using AEM 5.6.1, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JQuery. Developed Adobe AEM 5.6.1 templates and reusable components. Integrated with a shared globally accessible repository for shared permissions based digital media assets using AEM DAM. Created CQ5 templates for existing AEM software releases with AEM components. Extensively used AEM 5.6.1tagging features in developing components and templates. Worked on implementing home page and other related pages. Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application in authoring environment. Developed templates/components, workflows using CRXDE and deploying on AEM servers. Used JIRA & Mingle for bug tracking and project tracking. Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports. Created documentation and project specific configuration as wiki pages in Confluence. Used SVN as version control and integrated with Hudson for continuous integration and nightly builds. Involved in building, deploying the code and moving code to different environments. Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages. Involved in supporting the application postproduction and maintenance. Environment: AEM 5.6.1, Java (jdk1.6), JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, Windows and Linux. Confidential Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Extensively involved in different stages of Agile Development Cycle including Detailed Analysis, Design, Develop and Test. Implemented the Back-End Business Logic using Core Java technologies including Collections, Generics, Exception Handling, Java Reflection and Java me/O. Wrote and specified Spring Annotation Configuration to define Beans and View Resolutions to configure Spring beans, dependencies and the services needed by beans. Used SpringLoc to implement dynamic dependency injection and Spring AOP to implement crosscutting concerns such as transaction management. Wrote Mapping Configuration files to implement ORM Mappings in the Persistence Layer. Using Hibernate DAO support extended Dao Implementation. Hibernate Configuration files were written to connect Oracle database and fetch data. The Hibernate Query Cache which is a Second Level Cache to load objects using cached identifiers was implemented using cache to improve the performance. Implemented web services with RESTful standards with the support of JAX-RS APIs. Confirmation of registration and monthly statements are sent to users by integrating and implementing Java Mail API. Used SSO(Single-Sign-On) Framework and implement access control that enables user to log in once and gain access to the resources of multiple pages without being prompted to log in again Manipulated database data with SQL queries, including setting up stored procedures and triggers. Implemented front-end developments such as web pages design, data binding, Single-Page Applications using HTML/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX. Used jQuery libraries to simplify the frontend programming works. Performed users' input validation using JavaScript and jQuery. Developed front-end UI (User-Interface) with XML, HTML, CSS, Node JS and Angular JS. Performed JUnit test cases to test the service layers of the application. Used JIRA to track the projects and Gitto ensure version control. Environment: Java, Spring, JavaMail, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, Junit, JIRA, Oracle DB, MySQL, Git, SSO, JAX-RS. Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Worked with Agile development Methodology with a Test-driven approach. In case of application development to be loaded, modular approach was used. Depending on the business requirements, Class and Sequence diagrams were developed. Developed UML diagrams for analyzing the business requirements and designing the system. Worked on developing JSP's, Action Classes and delegating the tasks to the corresponding session parameters. Involved in Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design and Development of the project. Hibernate was the ORM(Object/Relational Mapping) tool used to relate the objects to the database. Annotations in Hibernate were extensively used. Worked on designing screens using Swing and Ajax. Most parts of the code developed were integrated using the Struts and Spring Framework. Involved in developing Hibernate mapping definitions for the required persistent layer. Implemented validations for both client side and Server side using the Struts2 Validator Framework. MVC design pattern and TDD was used in the application in order to make it more modular. Was responsible in generating Maven Script for faster and easier deployment. Configurations and Deployment was implemented using the IBM WebSphere Application using Maven Script. Deployed Web Services, JSP's, Servlets, and Server side components in Web Logic Application Server. Worked on running integrated testing using the JUNIT and XML for building the data structures required for the Web Service. Environment: Core Java, TDD Methodology, Agile Methodology, J2EE-JSP, Servlets, UML, Web logic Server, Tomcat, Struts2, Spring, Maven, CVS, JUnit, Log4j, EJB 2.0, XML, Eclipse, WebSphere. 