SUMMARY A seasoned and diverse Business Analyst/Scrum Master with 8+ years of professional experience in techno - functional roles across various domains including Banking, Insurance, Retail and E-Commerce. Excellent understanding of the software methodologies such as Agile, Waterfall, Waterfall-scrum, Agile Scrum, and RUP. Experience in conducting JAD sessions, testing, implementation, change management, defect management, issue resolution and support. Adept in designing and reviewing Business requirements document (BRD), Functional Specifications (FSD), Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), Software Requirement Specifications (SRS). Expertise in using various techniques like, Joint Application Development (JAD), Observation, Interviews, Document Analysis, Prototyping, Interface Analysis, and survey for eliciting the Business Requirements. Proficient in writing user stories, culminating them in product backlogs, prioritizing product backlog items (PBI’s) for sprints backlog. Led project meetings with stakeholders, UX team, developers to gather and prioritize requirements, assign and follow up on deliverables, and address open questions to enable projects to continue moving forward. Involved in performing Feasibility analysis, Risk analysis, GAP analysis, SWOT analysis to check the compatibility of the existing system infrastructure with the new business requirements. Well versed in writing User Stories and Breaking down Epic user stories using INVEST principle. Managing Requirements Churn in Scrum efficient by using prioritizing and estimating techniques like Planning poker, Moscow, T-shirt sizing. Experience in overseeing Functional tests, Regression Testing, Integration Testing, Performance Testing and was actively involved in conducting the User Acceptance Testing, assisting the user and documenting any defects/ error that surfaced. Strong understanding of JAVA/JEE design patterns, packaging, and deployment. Worked in the full HIPAA compliance lifecycle from gap analysis, mapping, implementation, and testing for processing of Medicaid Claims. Worked on EDI transactions: 270, 271, 834, 835, and 837I (P.I.D) to identify key data set elements for designated record set. Interacted with Claims, Payments and Enrollment hence analyzing and documenting related business processes. Involved in scrumceremonies such as sprint planning, daily stand-ups, sprint reviews and retrospectives with team, product owners and stakeholders. Knowledge in writing SQL queries, to manage and extract information from a database. Skilled with applying the Customer Relationship Management(CRM) model in managing a company’s interactions with customers, clients, and sales prospects. Excellent team handling abilities with good conflict resolution skill set. Expert in Stakeholder analysis and communication planning. Excellent verbal/written communication skills and strong analytical and interpersonal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS SDLC Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile, Kanban, RUP Requirements Management: Rational Requisite Pro, MS Project, Open Project, JIRA, Version One Rally Modeling Tools: MS Visio, Rational Rose, Mock flow Languages: C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, T/SQL, JAVA, Basic HTML Databases: MS Access, MS SQL Server Business Skills: JAD Session, SWOT Analysis, Project Planning & Scheduling Software Packages: MS Office Suite, MS Project, MS Visio, Rational Enterprise Suite, MS Share Point Testing Tools: Application Life Management (HP ALM), Mercury Quality Center (QC), QTP (Quick Test Professional), Load Runner Operating Systems: Windows, Mac OS X, UNIX, LINUX PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Pittsburgh, PA Sr Business Analyst/Scrum Master Responsibilities: Involved in all phases of Requirement Management, including gathering, analyzing, detailing and tracking requirements and performed GAP analysis. Created Business Requirements Document (BRD), Functional Requirements Document (FRD), Non-Functional Requirements Document (NFRD). Worked with business users to define product feature requests, business requirement specifications, and change requests; documented requirements and transformed them into functional and non-functional requirement specifications. Facilitating meetings with the appropriate subject matter experts (SME’s) to receive specifics on requirements. Ensuring that high level requirements have been decomposed properly into useable functional requirements. Analyze and interpret complex commercial mortgage documents, financial documents and leases. Worked closely with Database team and used SQL for data analysis. Involved in white box testing of the java code with developers in the unit testing phase. Utilizing design tools to create mock screens and prototypes. Documented Test Cases and managed change requirements with JIRA. Wrote several use cases to help the user understand the application in a more granular way. Translated the use case into flow chart diagrams to comprehend various alternate paths. Worked on a team environment to finalize use cases to develop functional and detail design specifications of the application. Participated in JAD sessions for requirement, feasibility and risk analysis with various stakeholders, including designers, developers, QA and management to identify critical and high-risk areas of the application. Collaborated with the QA team in reviewing and validating test plans and test cases, ensuring that the final application catered to the user requirements. Involved in preparing presentation material and giving various presentations to users, QA team and other audience to give them a complete walkthrough of how the application flows from end to end. Coordinated and monitored User Acceptance Testing (UAT) with the business user and interfaced with the development and test team with regards to defect status and fixes on a regular basis. Conducted Gap analysis to understand new business model and additional functionalities to be incorporated into the new application. Performed sanity test on the overall application before it went live for version I release. Ensuring that deliverables are being met on timely basis. Confidential, Minneapolis, MN Project Manager/Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Liaised with operations and technical team to convert business requirements into technical solutions for decommissioning of legacy systems. Worked in an agile team using Scrum methodology and participated in backlog prioritization with product owner and Scrum master. Created rich dashboards using Tableau Dashboard and prepared user stories to create compelling dashboards to deliver actionable insights. Connected Tableau server with share-point portal and setup auto refresh feature. Maintained and updated test plan, test cases, test scenarios along with test environment in ALM (Application lifecycle management). Worked on Java programming language, J2EE technologies, application servers, software architecture and software development methodology. Assisted Quality Assurance analyst in documenting test strategy and test cases. Partnered with Operations business users in conducting User acceptance testing. Maintained requirements traceability matrix in Rally. Developed as-is and to-be business processes using BPMN standards. Wrote BRD, FRD, use cases, test scenarios, test cases for testing the functional and non-functional aspects. Completed onsite HP-ALM 11.5 training for managing full SDLC from Management requirements defect tracking. Developed detail class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose. Documenting Request for Proposal (RFP) to elicit the vendor options in market space for various innovative technologies. Managed requirements and requirement traceability matrix (RTM) to ensure the coverage of all the requirements. Documented business requirements for system issues and enhancements using Rational Requisite Pro. Worked with the development team during the Design, Build and Test phase of system projects to clarify business requirements as required. Created several mock-ups and wireframes for GUI to understand the user requirements. Facilitating Sprint planning, Sprint retrospective, Sprint review and Product review meetings. Used MS Project to manage schedules, deadlines and resources and collaborate on the project. Made decisions on the number of sprints and the story points that should be accomplished in each sprint. Worked with the Policy and Procedure team as required to define new/updated policies and procedures. Provided post production support/analysis and assisted in performing User Acceptance Testing (UAT), performance testing and validated test plans. Confidential, Dublin, OH Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted JAD session with project’s stakeholder identifying problems and coming up with the best alternative to resolve. Demonstrated excellent verbal and written communication skills and the ability to interact professionally with a diverse group, executives and managers. Prepared Traceability Matrix and validation reports using HP ALM 11.52. Documented the requirements to meet end-state requirements and complied Business Specification Document, Software Requirement Specification Document and Use Case document. StrongHIPAA withICD-9andICD-10, analysis & compliance experience from payers, providers and exchanges perspective, with primary focus on Coordination of benefits. Demonstrated strong analytical and project management skills, including a thorough understanding of how to interpret business needs and to verify that the new system being place has the functionalities justifying the business needs. Communicated with the stakeholders throughout the lifecycle of the project, constantly updating them on benefits and risks associated with the project. Developed an analysis model that includes Use Case diagrams, and Activity diagrams using UML methodologies in MS Visio, which provided the development team a view of the requirements for design and construction phases. Supervised and Maintained the Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM). Arranged weekly team meetings to assign testing tasks and acquisition of status reports from individual team members. Effectively managed change by deploying change management techniques such as Change Assessment, Impact Analysis and Root Cause Analysis. Created sample Wire frames for better understanding of the system by Business and technology teams. Implemented UML methodologies to design Use Case, Activity diagram, Sequence Diagram. Reviewed Test Strategy, Traceability Matrices and Test Plans to ensure that test cases reflect user needs for the functional, performance, usability and security requirements. Experienced in designing and development of use and test-case scenarios, developed test plans, and test cases. Demonstrated understanding and experience with SQL queries. Confidential Business Analyst/Scrum Master Responsibilities: Interacted with the stakeholders for requirement gathering by Brainstorming, Interviewing, preparing questionnaire and getting feedback. Responsible for documenting Functional specification documents based on user requirements. Analyzed the requirements to enhance the existing system and designed the same using Rational Rose. Documented, and managed all project requirements for the application and changes to requirements throughout the software development lifecycle using Requisite Pro. Involved with in requirement and data modeling sessions and developed DFD Diagrams and ERD’s. Managed, updated and controlled projects to ensure timely delivery using MS Project. Created Use Case specifications, business flow diagrams, Activity/State diagram and Sequence diagram using MS Visio. Performed GAP analysis for the modules in production and conducted feasibility study for the performance impact analysis. Created Requirements vs. Test Case Matrix in Excel Spread Sheet template, used Test Director to store and maintain the Test Repository. Conducted User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and collaborated with the QA team to develop the test plans, test scenarios, test cases, test data to be used in testing based on business requirements, technical specifications and/or product knowledge. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Prepared Business Requirement Documents (BRD’s) after the collection of Functional Requirements from stakeholders and used Waterfall methodology in the project. Conducted Gap and Cost-Benefit analysis to establish the significance of the enhancement. Created high and low fidelity wireframe diagrams and mockup screens in requirements gathering phase. Used MS Visio for flow-charting process model and created Use Case Narratives, Use Case Diagrams and Activity Diagrams. Conducted JAD sessions to gather the design requirements and find feasible solution. Created and reviewed request and responses for web methods using XML. Developed Requirement Traceability Matrix and prepared test data for UAT testing. Reviewed Test Plans and Test Cases. Monitored performance testing results for several modules within the application.