SUMMARY  A Business Analyst with 7+ years of experience in IT solutions characterized by teamwork, process management, efficient elicitation, stakeholder facilitation, ability to adapt to legacy systems and tight deadlines. Possess exceptional communication and relationship management skills coupled with good analytical skills. Excellence in client interaction for requirement gathering, system study. Good at analyzing the inherent systems for a clear understanding of the business processes and associated system workflow. Good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies like Waterfall, Agile (SCRUM, RAD) and Spiral. Good in conducting Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions with the stakeholders, business users, and SME. Good in conducting interview and brainstorming sessions for better understanding, refining and prioritizing requirements in coordination with multiple teams. Comprehensive knowledge of business requirements, functional requirements, non - functional requirements, Force Field Analysis, RACI Matrix, Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM), GAP analysis. Hands on experience in creating and transforming business requirements into Functional and Business specifications. Good experience in Use Cases, user stories, designing business models and various diagrams such as data flow, activity, sequence, state-chart, and other UML diagrams. Participated in change control meetings and recommended appropriate action after analysis of changing requirements. Experience in working with the QA team for creating and reviewing test plan and test cases, manual testing and conducting User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Good experience at interacting with the Product Owner to ensure that epics and stories followed a logical functional hierarchy for a better understanding of the relationship of epics and stories to each other. Facilitated backlog grooming and sprint planning sessions with the Product Owner and Scrum Master. Comfortable in adopting Gherkins format of writing user stories and test cases. Good Knowledge about Web development and Web designing projects. Good Knowledge about Customer relationship management and customer Relationship Lifecycle. Hands on experience on SalesForce Suits. TECHNICAL SKILLS Business Skills: Business process Analysis and Design, Gap Analysis, Impact Analysis, JAD Sessions, Requirement Gathering, Use Case Modeling. Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall. Management & Intelligence Tools: Rational Rose, Requisite Pro, OBIEE 10G, PeopleSoft, Adobe Analytics, SalesForce Service Cloud, SalesForce Sales Cloud, Einstien Analytics, BOX, IBM WebSphere commerce, Quality Center. Database: DB2, MySQL, Oracle Operating System: Windows Vista, Windows 2000/XP/7, and MS-DOS, Java ETL / Statistical Tools: Informatica, SQL, MS Excel, Oracle Data Integrator Microsoft Tools: MS Office Suite 2013, MS SharePoint, MS Visio, MS Project, Visual Studio PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Brooklyn Center, MN Business Analyst Responsibility: Participate in packaged application implementations and development projects of a moderately complex nature, working under minimal supervision. Conduct analysis activities associated with process definition and design, performance management, and business operations optimization with the goal of achieving company objectives. Act as a liaison between business users and Information Technology team members to gather and document detailed business and technical requirements, including business rules and data standards. Leading the team in gathering Data Warehouse and Reporting requirements from the Business and transforming them to Technical requirements. Conduct JAD session to gather business requirement. Performed requirement assessment with business users, understand and document requirements. Determine configuration and custom development necessary and communicate to the users on a non-technical level. Capable of detailing complex solutions. Defined system scope and objective and prepared business requirement document and functional requirement document. Performed Impact analysis on the occurrence of the change request to the requirement and recommends follow-through actions. Performed GAP analysis to identify the key finding, the short term consideration, long term consideration and its benefit between AS-IS and TO-BE processes. Prepared requirement traceability matrix, use cases, use case diagram, flowchart using MS Visio. Develop test conditions, case outlines, test plans, and detailed test scripts for a defined set of business factors. Coordinate and conduct user acceptance testing, review test results with users to ensure solutions meet business requirements. Provide end-user training and procedural documentation. Conduct end user training and assist users with ad-hoc information and/or reporting needs. Communicate effectively and work co-operatively with IT team members and business users in order to complete assigned projects as efficiently as possible. Performed risk assessment and provide alternative courses of action to achieve business and organization goals and objectives. Developed data maps for retrieval of information from existing account systems and outlined security measures for accessibility and transmission of information. Worked closely with the developers to create ETL processes to lead legacy data into SQL staging tables and wrote SQL queries to perform data validation and data integrity testing. Assist business users and other Information Technology team members in troubleshooting the production environment, provide production support to research, resolve and document system problems. Build, develop, and grow relationships with business users and other stakeholders in order to establish mutual trust and provide a foundation for high-level project partnership. Strict adherence to established support and service management policies and procedures (i.e. incident, change, problem, SDLC, etc.) thereby ensuring all activities are fully documented for auditing and future support purposes. Environment: MS SQL Server Management Studio, MS Office, MS Project, MS Visio, Eclipse, Tango Analytics, Nodus, MS Dynamics Great Plains, Windows 7, MS Office, Requisite Pro. Confidential, Salt Lake City, Utah Business Analyst Responsibility: Identified all necessary Business Use Cases from requirements, created UML Diagrams including Use Cases Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams, using Microsoft Visio. Understood the business logic, User Requirements, and test objectives to develop Use Case Scenarios. Served as a liaison between the business team and the project team by assisting the business in identifying, understanding, and documenting their business needs. Facilitated JAD session with the Product Owner, SME’s and development team. Collected and documented business processes as well as business rules. Performed gap analysis. Understood the business goals and strategy and analyze their current processes to identify the processes that will deliver the greatest return on investment using IBM BPM. Coordinated with teams within the organization to collect release requirements. Modeled the information and then came up with the requirements prioritization. Eliminated false requirements by screening out multiple versions of user input. Final prioritization was based on process requirements. Participated in writing several use cases, which the testing team uses for writing test cases for UAT and System integration testing. Align Risk and Controls. Refresh Business procedures Developed Traceability Matrix for maintaining/updating new system requirements using MS Excel. Created detailed presentations to the stakeholders on the transformation update. Review and Validate Business Case Environment: MS Visio, MS Office, MS Project, UML, Use Cases, Windows 7, MS Office, Requisite Pro. Confidential, Cleveland, OH Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Coordinated with Product Owners and Project SME'S in an Agile Scrum environment to gather functional and non-functional requirements. Fully responsible for understanding business logic and designing requirements, assisting other business analysts in generating Functional Requirement Specifications (FRS) and User Requirements Specifications (URS) and communication with the developers Created Requirements Traceability Matrix to ensure that all the requirements are covered. Worked along with the management to assist for the betterment of CRM system by following the Customer relationship lifecycle. Worked along with the system analyst to manage the customer data and survey their customer base to obtain their feedbacks through the Sales Cloud. Worked with other System Analyst to identify new and emerging solutions, assesses their relevance and potential value to the organization and present information to teammates and management. Suggested and setup BOX tool for internal workflow and external collaborator to share inventory planning document with relevant vendor. Conducted training to the supply chain team to file share respective documents. Extensively worked with Data Integration and Security team to perform data mapping and analysis of legacy systems with current CRM Application and maintain various artifacts like activity diagrams, data dictionaries and process flows. Assisted manager to optimize the service operation to perform insides action using SFDC Service Analytics. Responsible for documenting UML (unified modeling language) for better execution, schedule, and budget. Conducted JAD sessions. Conducted Gap Analysis and updated recommendation to the Project Manager. Conducted Demo to the Steering Committee at the end of each release and present the release status and risks associated with upcoming iterations and LL of the last iteration Worked with the QA team to verify test cases and manage the performance of the product on test results, and inspected on integration testing and regression testing for each iteration before doing my UAT (user acceptance testing) and report to project manager for final approval. Environment: - Windows, Agile, Scrum, MS Office, MS Project, BOX, MS Excel, MS Visio, Salesforce, Sales Cloud, CRM, CDM, JIRA, GAP analysis. Confidential, Santa Monica, CA Business Analyst Responsibilities: Worked with different business users to develop Vision Document and Business Requirement Specifications by gathering Business and Functional Requirements and to identify business problems in the current system. Experience supporting the full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in Agile (Scrum) methodology. Participated in JAD Sessions for gathering requirements from SME'S. Played the role of a Facilitator in the JAD session. Developed BRD (Business Requirement Document), FRD (Functional Requirement Document) and participated in developing SDD (Software development document) Identified user stories from the Functional Requirements and wrote User Story Specifications and created "TO-BE Business Process Workflow" Diagrams (Activity diagrams) in MS Visio. Worked in an Agile fashion, sprint planning (2-3 weeks sprints), schedule and drive SCRUMS to track progress, communicate periodic status to stakeholders and senior management. Created User Story Diagrams using MS Visio and Rational Rose. Performed extensive business process analysis including Data Mapping and GAP analysis. Maintained a Traceability Matrix. Effectively communicating to all stakeholders to solidify needs and identifying issues in a timely manner. Assisted PM in creating WBS (Work breakdown structure) Performed Functional and GUI Testing to ensure that the user acceptance criteria are met. Co-coordinated the User acceptance testing (UAT) with the SME'S to make sure that all the Business Requirements are addressed in the application. Environment: Windows, Agile Methodology, MS Office, MS Project, MS Excel, JIRA, MS Visio, GAP analysis and SWOT analysis. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Thoroughly analyzed the proposed systems for a clear understanding of the business processes and associated system workflow. Conducted interview and brainstorming sessions for better understanding and refining requirements in coordination with multiple teams. Clarified and prioritized requirements by conducting brainstorming sessions with stakeholders and SMEs. Acted as a liaison between Business, Production and Development teams to ensure all the BRs and FRs are clarified, verified, and validated Facilitated JAD sessions to identify business rules and requirements and documented them in a format that can be reviewed and understood by both business people and technical. Created Requirements Traceability Matrix to ensure that all the requirements are covered. Developed different Unified Modelling Language (UML) Diagrams using MS Visio to help developers and stakeholders to understand business process. Participating in the planning, development, coordination, and presentation of specific testing needs as appropriate to the quality assurance needs of the end user. Assisting business users in defining UAT test cases and plans; Established and maintained test cases and test data in Quality Center. Environment: MS Visio, MS Excel, Word, PowerPoint, QC, Rational RequisitePro, DOORS, Agile Methodology. 