SUMMARY Highly - motivated and detail-oriented Business Analyst with around 7 years of experience in outstanding project planning, execution and coordination skills. Excellent experience in requirements elicitation and analysis, process designing, business solutions and project documentation according to Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) and Business Analysis Body of Knowledge (BABOK) Guides. Accomplished and fluent communicator with strong reasoning, problem-solving and decision-making skills, along with a practical approach and sound business knowledge. Skilled at proposing appropriate and technology-based recommendations for improving functional efficiency of the organization and achieving business excellence Extensive experience in project management methodologies like Agile and Waterfall. Experienced in Business Process Reengineering and Gap analysis to check the compatibility of existing system infrastructure with new business requirements Experienced in translating business requirements and user expectations into understandable business objectives, use cases, process diagrams, functional and non-functional requirements using various external tools Skilled in designing and reviewing various documents including Business requirements document (BRD), Software Requirement Specifications (SRS), Use Case Specifications, Functional Specifications (FSD), Systems Design Specification (SDS) and testing documents Specialized in Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM), test procedural development and review, tool validation, project customization and administration, defect management, configuration management, version control and business documentation Extensive experience with MS Office applications, MS Project, PowerPoint, Excel, VISIO. Expert in handling all phases of a Project- Initiating, Planning, Executing, Monitoring Controlling and Closing. Acting as a liaison between the developers, analysts, testers and the management team to resolve any conflicts in terms of requirements. TECHNICAL SKILLS Areas of Expertise:  SDLC, Requirements Gathering, System Analysis, Business Process Reengineering, Gap analysis, UML, Business /system documentation, Project Management, Pivot tables, Data Analysis, Data mapping, Unit Testing, Regression testing CRM Tools:  Client Management System, Salesforce Tools: & Utilities Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visio,, JIRA,, SQL Developer, SQL Plus, SharePoint, JIRA, Advance Query Tool (AQT), Client Management System (CMS), Salesforce, eDocs, Confluence, qTest, Enroller Online (RPC), MS Project(MPP), BMC (Remedy), ABACUS, Plan view, Advance Care Planning (ACP), ARIBA, SharePoint, Google Drive Scripting Language:  SQL Database:  Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server 2010 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, New York Business Analyst Responsibilities: Worked as a Business Analyst and Scrum Master. Understood the business requirement and translated into a functional requirements document. ConductedBusiness Requirements walkthroughwith the business owners as well as the Technical Stake holders. Interacted and attended various meetings with Development and testing team to discuss about Test Problems. Created Use Cases, Process Flows, and Activity Diagrams. Documented all the requirements and tasks in every Sprint in Confluence Prepared product backlog working with product owner and other SME (Subject Matter Experts). Prioritize user stories and assigned to different sprints. Facilitated daily stand ups and managed task board with user stories and board. Created subpacks and provided to the installation team for project migration purpose. Met with different stakeholders and teams to understand the dependency on current Client Management System (CMS). Met with Salesforce team to figure out where the data will be housed and displayed in Salesforce. Researched where all the functionality used in CMS is present in Salesforce. Wrote the requirements for functionalities to be added in Salesforce for ticket generation. Did the research on all TPA data touchpoints in different applications and teams. Investigated where all the required fields (Active account, TPA account, MEP account, Sr plan admin, TPA admin name, TPA admin address etc) for TPA association migration are present in Salesforce Understood the current flow and suggested a new flow for data. Created flow diagrams for current and suggested flow and explained it to the business. Successfully moved the association in Salesforce for TPA data. Attended knowledge transfer sessions for the Enroller Online tool. Understood the business requirement and translated into a functional requirements document. Created a document to list out all the fields in Pegasys, Enroller and Paris III database needed for this project. Worked with developers to create a mapping document to correctly point Pegasys fields to be moved to Paris III. Worked with the stakeholders to remove the functionalities/fields not being used and will not be needed in future. Tested the tickets by running the SQL queries in AQT to verify the results. Documented all the test cases and evidence in qTest and linked all the test results to JIRA. Created, updated and tracked JIRA tickets. Updated the minimum SBP fees and other changes requested by the client in the requirements document. Worked with developers to figure out the tables and fields that needs updated. Worked with stakeholders and business team to define rules for scripting. Created a business requirements document defining rules for removing current and adding new services requested by client. Created technical specification document for developers to write scripts. Tested the file on front end (eDocs screen) and back end (SQL server) making sure we got the desired output. Tested the data in discrepancy report by running SQL queries in Sequel Server. Understood the existing process of sending trade files to our partners. Interacted with developers and business users to understand both the accounting platform (Pegasys and Paris III). Facilitated the process of delivering files to our partners on time. Identified and delivered client enhancement requests. Update theFRDas needed to in corporate approved change requests once the key stakeholders are informed Created mapping documents by reading stored procedures using AQT and pointing them to the correct field. Environment: JIRA, Advance Query Tool (AQT), Client Management System (CMS), Salesforce, eDocs, JIRA, Confluence, qTest, Enroller Online (RPC), Microsoft Visio, Agile. Confidential, NJ Business Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for defining the scope and implementing business rules of the project, gathering business requirements and documentation Responsible for writing Functional Requirement Specifications (FRS) and User Requirement Specification (URS) Analyzed Business Requirements and segregated them into high level and low level Use Cases, Activity Diagrams / State Chart Diagrams using Rational Rose according to UML methodology thus defining the Data Process Models. Used SQL for organizing and abstracting data from MS access data bases, created reports, forms on Ms Access. Successfully conducted JAD sessions, which helped synchronize the different stakeholders on their objectives. Used SQL queries for organizing and abstracting data from MS access data bases, created reports, forms on Ms Access. Made use of Adobe Photoshop and MS Visio to create icons, banner images, and adjust image size/resolution to optimize page load time for team site web pages. Creating, Preparing & Analyzing methods reports using MS Excel (Pivot tables, Vlookup, Hlookup, Macros) and reporting the same to Content Owners/SMEs, was a bare minimum expectation. Reviewing feedback received from practice area resources and developing method content in collaboration with Content Owners & SMEs. Environment: MS SharePoint 2010/2013, Adobe Photoshop, MS Word, MS Excel, SQL, MS Visio. Confidential, Dallas TX Business Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - requirements gathering, conceptual design, analysis, high and low level detailed design, development, system testing. Used MS Visio to map processes (clarify roles/procedures) and build process models (improve rules and procedures). Documented and delivered Functional Specification Document to the project team. Coordinated with developers: Conducted JAD with SMEs, Developers, Project Managers and Quality Analysts to discuss business requirements, test planning, and defect tracking sessions Gathered and documented requirements in multiple process areas and disciplines in the Commercial banking including business process, controls, and analytics and reporting. Ensure communication and collaboration with stakeholders for system outages/deployments Involved in enhancing and supporting custom client requests Performed Gap analysis (As-Is & To-Be) between the legacy systems and the proposed systems and created Business Process Models (BPM). Identify, direct, monitor and report on quality product delivery performance efforts including resolution plans and prioritization. Developed business context diagrams (flow charts) in an effort to identify and analyze process flows in the system. Coordinate in-house BI integration teams and vendor development teams on daily basis, speed up application modeling, construction and delivery sprints. Define and assign time-boxed bi-weekly sprints to self-organizing business teams and in-house development teams with off-site vendor development teams, and monitor progress on weekly basis. Created a detailed requirements document, test plan and procedures for application testing. Created Drill Through Reports and also Reports that involved Master Detail Relationships Involved in modifying the existing Reports based upon the change requested by the user Collaborated with DBAs to perform data mapping and executed simple and complex SQL queries to verify the mapped data Environment: AQT, SQL, SQL Developer, JIRA, MS Word, MS Excel. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Acted as a primary liaison between business and technical development team. Held brainstorming sessions with the client, executives and stakeholders to determine best form of requirement gathering. Attended Client’s workshops and Knowledge Transfer sessions to understand the client’s system. Understood the business requirements and identified gaps in different processes and implemented process improvement initiatives across the business improvement model. Created Business Requirement document (BRD) and Functional Requirement document and maintaining the Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) related document. Worked in a Scrum team environment and participated in backlog review and Sprint planning sessions, following Agile methodology Collaborated and negotiated with stakeholders in defining project scope boundaries. Gathered client specific business requirements and translated it in a proper manner to the developers. Conducted JAD sessions with management, SMEs', Vendors, Users and other Stakeholders for open and pending issues. Worked and assisted the project manager for planning and organizing the project activities. Optimum use of documentation to avoid any form of miscommunication or misinterpretation during the entire software development process. Tracked and updated all decisions, risks, budget issues and action items to ensure project is on track and within scope. Planned, allocated and released workstation of resources using advance care planning tool. Managed multiple Program Administration folders/files on SharePoint, project documents and training materials in MS Office. Environment: Windows 2000, Oracle 9i, UML, MS Project, MS Word, MS Excel, DB2, BMC (Remedy), ABACUS, Plan view, Advance Care Planning (ACP), ARIBA, SharePoint. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Elicited requirements by identifying system users and conducting interviews Conducted JAD sessions and interviews with developers and SMEs for eliciting requirements Created the FRD, BRD and SRS artifacts after gathering input from business owners and other stakeholders. Performed GAP analysis, cost-benefit analysis and feasibility analysis within the triple constraints. Created visual flow and UML diagrams for use cases, user interface, process flow and information flow. Created mockups (static and dynamic prototypes) of webpages and GUI, visualized process flows, information flow using MS Office Visio. Conducted Business Process Modeling (BPMN) to understand business processes. Utilized RUP methodology to develop the web application to satisfy the warranted periodic functionality releases. Involved in tracking defects and Managed scope and requirements throughout the project life cycle. Environment: Agile, JAD, MS Office Visio, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel, MS Word, MS Project. 