SUMMARY 5+ years of Experience in gathering user requirements, preparing and analyzing Business Requirement Documents (BRD), System Requirement Specifications (SRS) and propose changes as per various internal and external requirements gatheird for process improvement. Excellent noledge of standard industry methodologies like Waterfall, Iterative, AgileMethodology and Software Development Life Cycle Process(SDLC) Worked on all phases of SDLC possesses expertise to develop multi - tier, scalable, web-enabled business applications In depth noledge of UML in visualizing and documenting the artifacts using Use Cases diagrams, class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, and Collaboration diagrams in Rational Rose and MS-VISIO Experience communicating wif Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), performing requirements gathering, business analysis, data analysis and documentation. Experience in conducting Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions and White Board Sessions wif end-users, Subject Matter Expert (SMEs) team, Architects and design group development and QA team for project meetings, walkthroughs and customer interviews Excellent interpersonal skills and effective at engaging and maintaining a strong working partnership wif business users, stakeholders, IT app owners, and subject matter experts (SMEs) alike. Hands on experience in working wif Cross Functional teams, converting the data requirements into business requirement documents (BRD’s), Functional Specification Documents (FSD) and Technical requirement documents (TRD). Excellent noledge of HIPAA standards, EDI (Electronic data interchange) Transaction syntax like ANSI X12, Implementation and Knowledge of HIPAA code sets, ICD-9, ICD-10 coding and HL7. Having Good noledge on Medicareand Medicaidclaims. EDI Medical Claims experience in Process Documentation, Analysis and Implementation in 835/837/270/271/834 processes of EDI Transactions from the Provider/Payer side Demonstrated skills in managing relationships wif key clients, understanding their marketing plans and budgets and developing customized pitches/proposals. Experience in SQL queries for data validation at backend in SQL. Sound understanding of Gap Analysis, Requirement management, Risk analysis and project plans Strong Experience working wif Various Database Like SQL Server, Oracle, PL SQL And MS Access Efficient in Share Point Server for managing documentation for the project Excellent experience wif Data Mapping, Data Analysis and Data Profiling Used SQL Assistant, TOAD to write SQL and query the Teradata database table Solid experience in backlog grooming, Project Story board, capacity planning, tracking burn down charts wif business and technical teams. Experienced of Data Warehouse Environment including Data Analysis, Data Modeling, Data Mapping, Data Integration and Data Migration. Coordinated wif Quality Analyst team in creating test approach documents, test plans, test scenarios, test procedures, test cases, and test data. Involved in standups, defect review meetings, weekly status meetings wif the development team, QA team, project owners to resolve technical issues. Extensive experience in mentoring, Knowledge transfer and training other Business Analysts Highly motivated, organized and results oriented wif excellent interpersonal,communication and presentation skills wif capability of adapting to new and fast changing technologies Experience working wif on-shore/off-shore models. TECHNICAL SKILLS Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall, RUP, Business Modeling, Process Modeling Operating Systems: Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP/7/10, LINUX, UNIX, MAC Change Management Tools: Rational Clear Quest, Test Director Business Modeling Tools: Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio Project Management: Microsoft Project, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visio, Power Point Databases: Hadoop, Hive, SQL Server, My SQL, Oracle 10g/9i/8i, IBM DB2, Toad, Teradata SQL Assistant Testing Tools: ALM Quality Center, QTP, Clear Quest, Rational Suite, Test Director Documentation: Scope Document, Requirements (Business Requirements Document- BRD, Functional Requirements Document/ Software Requirements Specification PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, TX Business / Data Analyst Responsibilities: Worked as a liaison between the product development, technology and internal business units. Worked wif end users to identify business requirements recorded the requirements in a format dat can be reviewed and understood by both business people and technical people Participated in Daily Scrum Meetings Performed Data Validation before handing over the data for production and quality testing. Proactively managed changes in project scope, identify potential crises, and devise contingency plans. Generated/Reviewed data mapping documents to define mapping from source to target. Performed Data Analysis to understand the root cause for the source issue and created production Incidents if needed Experience working in Data Warehouse Environment to performData Analysis, Data Modeling, Data Mapping, Conducted JAD sessions to allow different stakeholders to communicate their perspectives wif each other, resolve any issues and come to an agreement quickly. Responsible for converting flat files and legacy systems into Source to Stage and Stage to Target mapping documents. Worked closely wif data stage team and ETL developers to analyze the data requirements. Created As-Is and to be process diagrams using MS Visio and performed Gap-Impact analysis. Worked on systems migration from IBM DB2 to Teradata by converting mapping documents according to Teradata standards. Closely worked wif Data Architects to create the solution diagrams and Data Models. Coordinated meetings to analyze and gather functional and non-functionalrequirements wif the SMEs and business units. Managed the Traceability matrix to trace Business Requirements, Functional Requirements and Use Cases. Extensively used JIRA for backlog grooming, scalability of sprint and to analyze the actual time Vs estimated time for completion of each sprint. Worked closely wif QA and Developers to clarify/understand functionality, resolve issues and provided feedback to nail down the bugs. Actively participated throughout the User Acceptance Testing (UAT) process and halped coordinate the application deployment process. Conducting kick off meeting for UAT and scheduling daily stand up meeting wif team to find out roadblocks. Environment: Agile, Teradata, UML, SharePoint, SCRUM, MS-Office, Teradata, TOAD, Teradata SQL Assistant 14.0, Tortoise SVN, JIRA. Confidential, TX Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Identified high-level requirements for documenting detailed business requirements Facilitated UAT wif the stakeholders and the business users and conducted UAT Worked closely wif end-users and developer to develop a detailed understanding of the opportunities for improvement, then gatheird requirements and prepared a comprehensive set of documents to define the specifications and business value of the system Prepared a detailed Business Requirement document. Participated in brainstorming sessions and walkthroughs. Defined the Business Process Flow. Analyzed the Data flow and UML Diagrams. Closely worked wif ETL team in creating Meta file, Cntrl File and Dat files. Worked wif development team in assisting wif the requirements while creating the pig scripts and execution using Talend. Closely worked wif the QA team in validating the Data Quality rules for the data ingestion process Executed SQL Queries in PuTTy and Teradata SQL assistant for data analysis. Participated/conducted in Daily Scrum Meetings, Requirement Gathering Workshops, Weekly Status Calls, and other meetings as needed. Participated in Sprint planning, Sprint Retrospective and Sprint Demo meetings. Generated technical Data Mapping documents to define mapping sourcing from the source systems to Hive and from Hive to Oracle. The iterative approach halps address risk early and continuously, through demonstrable progress and frequent executable releases. Researched flow diagram libraries to understand the application. Facilitated customer meetings and Business design walkthroughs data definition and GUI design. Documented approved change controls to add them into business design. Worked wif the testing team to develop their test plans, writing test cases and test scenarios. Analyzed SQL queries dat were used by the testing team to validate the data in the back-end OracleDatabase. Worked wif Business Area Experts and Subject matter experts to understand the business requirements. Actively participated throughout the User Acceptance Testing (UAT) process and halped coordinate the application deployment process. Conducting kick off meeting for UAT and scheduling daily stand up meeting wif team to find out roadblocks. Environment: RUP, Teradata, UML, SharePoint, SCRUM, MS-Office, Bigdata Hive, PIG, Talend, Hadoop Confidential, TX Business Analyst Responsibilities: Participated in project planning sessions to gather, analyze business requirements, and assist in root cause analysis and resolutions. Created data flow diagrams, data mapping from Source to stage and Stage to Target mapping documents indicating the source tables, columns, data types, transformations required and business rules to be applied. Interacted closely wif all the technical architects in choosing the best solution for various functionalities and halped them in preparing the solution summary document. Facilitated JAD sessions, kick off meetings and web-ex meetings wif various teams dat are directly or indirectly related to the projects. Applied business noledge to analyze external and internal requirements, and define solutions to be provided by the most suitable technical application or combination of applications. Used SQL developer to write and run queries to pull the data for analysis. Managed the migration of data from the old legacy system to the new web based system, including supervising all the interns on the migration team. Responsible for a number of requirement tasks including providing sales information, Flight leg schedules, handling time, flight capacity, route results and strategic planning Worked on enhancements, wide Change Requests, maintaining changes to artifacts and application using appropriate modeling & configuration management tools. Identified risks associated wif proposed solutions, created models of "as is" and "to be" business processes and associated narratives. Performed a complex data analysis on Flight leg capacity, flight leg schedules, cargo facility, and transit time for Data Mapping and Data Integration. Provided technical and procedural support for User Acceptance Testing (UAT)