SUMMARY Over 4 years of IT experience in Finance, Online and Mobile banking. Worked as a Business Analyst for full project life cycle implementation. Excellent analytical skills in understanding business processes and managing business users; requirements gathering through JAD sessions and creating Business Requirement Documents (BRD), Functional Requirement Documents (FRD). Experience wif analyzing methods such as, GAP analysis, SWOT analysis, Risk analysis, Impact analysis, Business Project analysis, Process Flow analysis and Failure analysis. Good noledge of Agile and Waterfall Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Thorough noledge of implementing SDLC in all six phases of a project me.e. Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and implementation. Experienced wif UML diagrams like use cases, activity diagrams, sequence diagrams, process flow, state diagrams and work flow diagrams using MS Visio. Experienced in developing Software Requirement Specifications (SRS), Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), Use cases, Test cases and Process Map across the deliverables of a project. Experienced in preparation of Test Plans, Test case and test scenarios for different modules and documented test cases for various screens of the application by using HP Quality Center. Experienced in Black Box Testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), Unit, Integration, Functional, Stress, Load and Interoperability testing, using HP Quality Center (QC), Test Director, Win Runner, Load Runner, Quick Test Pro and Rational Test Manager. Strong noledge in creating and executing SQL queries to support backend testing and maintaining the Database. TECHNICAL SKILLS OPERATING SYSTEM:  Windows 10 Server, Windows XP/2000/NT/98, HP - UNIX10, Solaris 10 DATABASE:  Oracle, MS SQL Server, MS Access, DB2 BUG TRACKING TOOLS:  JIRA FRONT - END TOOLS:  PeopleSoft, MS Excel, MS Office, MS ProjectLANGUAGES C+ +REQUIREMENTMGMT Rational Requisite Pro, Caliber RM MODELING TOOLS:  MS Visio, Rational Rose, Caliber RDM, MS Project, Project Charter, Project Plan, Risk Mitigation Plan, Project Communications Plan, Stakeholder Analysis, Budgeting, CQD (Cost, Quality, Delivery) Metrics METHODOLOGIES:  (SDLC) Agile, Waterfall Model PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, River Woods, IL Business Analyst Responsibilities: Interacted wif the stakeholders by interviewing them, by preparing questionnaire and getting feedback. Created SQL quires to capture users engagement. Communicated Project Requirements, Business Issues, Solution and made recommendation. Responsible for defining the scope of the project, gathering business requirements, doing gap analysis and documenting them textually or wifin models. Supported IT unit creating functional specification documents for the design, development and implementation of strategic projects. Analyzed and documented Business requirements and detail design of the software for full understanding of the business. Supported the assigned project manager wif creating detailed project plans and assisting in developing, scheduling and tracking project timelines. Gathering and documenting the requirements dat are critical to the business mission and using those requirements to design application software. Created use case scenarios and documented work flow and business process. Used Agile to document requirements, associated change requests wif requirements and connected requirements wif Use cases. Prepared the UML Use Cases using Rational Rose. Used MS Visio for flow-charting, process model and architectural design of the application. Documented business workflows textually as well as in UML diagrams according to RUP for the stakeholder review. Conducted JAD sessions to allow different stakeholders to communicate their perspectives wif each other, resolve any issues and come to an agreement quickly. Involved in maintaining and managing different versions of Documents using Rational ClearCase. Conducted FRS and URS reviews and walkthroughs wif the designers, developers and stakeholders. Performed feasibility, adaptability study and risk analysis to identify the business critical areas from the user perspective. Confidential, Jersey City, New Jersey Business Analyst Responsibilities: Documented core business process information, business rules, business entities and other relevant information in Business requirement document (BRD) and functional requirement document (FRD). A facilitated collection of requirements from system users and preparation of business requirement documents (BRD) dat provided appropriate scope of work for the technical teams. Assisted in creating business requirements, implementation, test cases, test scenarios and test plans. Conducted JAD sessions and brainstorming, interview session between the development team, business stakeholders, and end users. Worked directly wif Risk Analytics/Users to establish Business Requirements, defined and documented core business process information, business rules, business entities and other relevant information in Business requirement document (BRD). Prepared the Use Case views for a clear understanding between the vision document and the stakeholders using Microsoft Visio Interacted wif SMEs, Business and IT to develop Process flow diagrams. Prepared the RTM (Requirement traceability matrix) using MS Excel to map the status of requirements. Kept RTM updated as per the progress of the project to keep the development of the project as per user requirements. Conducted meetings wif users and other stakeholders to elicit, organize and document the requirements Facilitated Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions for Rapid Application Development (RAD) to identify business rules and requirements and documented them in a format dat can be reviewed and understood by both business people and technical people. Conducted meetings wif users and other stakeholders to elicit, organize and document the requirements Facilitated Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions for Rapid Application Development (RAD) to identify business rules and requirements and documented them in a format dat can be reviewed and understood by both business people and technical people. Prioritized business and systems problems; analyzed their impact on the system. Analyzed requirements and involved in preparation of Test Plans, Test case and test scenarios for different modules and documented test cases for various screens of the application. Reviewed Test Plan Document and Test Strategy Documents using Application Lifecycle Management. Confidential - Buffalo, NY Business Analyst Responsibilities: Interacted daily wif the Technical, UX and Marketing team to create mockups and wireframes for various mobile devices. Acted as liaison between end users and vendor, expediting resolution of issues. Identified and resolved issues. Worked as a liaison among stakeholders in order to elicit, analyze, communicate and validate requirements for changes to business processes, policies and information systems using Axure. Conducted UAT sessions wif various groups of stakeholder to ensure dat the system met all the requirements. Assisted wif the screen design of mobile app page, report design, and all user interface issues by providing detailed functional requirements. Used the Agile Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), having thorough understanding of various phases like Requirements, Analysis/Design, Development and Testing Developed Use Cases, Logical Views, and Activity Diagrams using Axure. Coordinated the User Acceptance testing wif the end users. Used Rational RequisitePro for managing the requirements. Documented Test Plans and Test Cases. Used Axure to built graphical representation of each page of the two lines of business (LOB). Analyzed and mapped processes (current state/future state). Directed quality assurance efforts through the creation of test plans and test matrixes. Coordinated and assists wif user acceptance testing. Wrote custom reports and reported status and issues to the Project Manager Assured dat the project plan is adhered to and scope changes are formally reviewed and documented. Collaborating wif Senior BA’s to ensure artifacts were completed on time. Assisted the QA team to write the test plan and test cases. Worked wif the QA team to perform SIT, Regression and UAT testing.