SUMMARY Qualified professional wif over 7 years of extensive experience in the field of Business / System Analysis, working wif the technical staff to implement management and staff's business requirements into the software application in retail and e - commerce environments. Highly motivated team player wif excellent communication, presentation and interpersonal skills, always willing to work in challenging and cross-platform environment. Experience in B2B, B2C and Ecommerce portals web application developments. Expertise wif supply chain strategies/vendor manufacturing process methods to determine level of procurement and strategic sourcing strategies/plans and worked wif vendors/peers to determine lead times, schedules and cycle counts, established requirements needs. Highly proficient in working wif users to gather requirements, analyze them and subsequently use the Rational project and design tools to model the requirements. In-depth knowledge of creating use cases, functional design specifications, activity diagrams, logical, component and deployment views to extract business process flow. Extensively used rational tools for UML, tracking and reporting and applied the Rational Unified Process in all areas of a software development life cycle. Interviewed SMEs and Stakeholders to get a better understanding of client business processes and gather business requirements. Conducted JAD sessions, created Use Cases, work flows, screen shots and Power Point presentations for the Web Applications Gatheird and documented Non-functional requirements. Conducting requirement gathering sessions, feasibility studies and Impact Analysis and organizing the software requirements in a structured way using Rational RequisitePro to track development. Interacting regularly wif the development team, creative services, database designer, system administrator and the higher management to meet the deadlines of Project milestones. Worked in close co-ordination wif the testing team in developing test plan and test cases from functional and business requirements. Performed UAT and exposure to User Certification Testing (UCT) and Operational Readiness Testing (ORT) Expertise in understanding and supporting the client wif Project Planning, Project Definition, Requirements Definition, Analysis, Design, Testing, System documentation and user training. Used Rational ClearQuest for tracking and prioritizing defects and for enhancements after base lining the requirements. Used Rational ClearCase for Version Control of requirement documents. Well versed in writing queries/Scripts for Data Analysis and QA reporting and testing. Good knowledge of Workflows and Content Management Tools. Experience in Change Management Process (Identify, Analyze, Evaluate, Plan, Implement, Review and Close). Excellent skills in Project and Performance Management to support Strategic Planning, Goal Setting, Strengthen Accountability, Enhance Decision Making, and Improve Customer Service. Experience in implementing Microsoft Office SharePoint 2007. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: C, C++, HTML, XML, SQL. Data Base: MS Access, Oracle (SQL Series), DB2 Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports 8.0 Operating Systems: MS-DOS, Windows95/98/NT/2000/XP, Apple McIntosh, Linux Software: MS Office Suite(Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint & Outlook), MS Visio, Rational Rose, Rational Requisite Pro, Adobe Acrobat, MS Office FrontPage, Lotus Notes Performance Testing Tools: Virtual User Generator, Load Runner Processes/Technologies: Rational Unified Process (RUP), Waterfall, UML & Microsoft Office SharePoint 2007 Automation Tools: Requisite Pro, Win runner, QTP, Test Director, Quality Center PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, KS Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Interacted wif the business users and gatheird requirements for the business definition. Created Functional Requirements Document (FRDs), Functional Specifications Document (FSDs) and Traceability Matrices for application development. Development and enhancement of Custom Application wif Oracle Sales Analyzer Support for a major effort to improve the Warehouse Management System (WMS) capabilities of Supply Chain. Custom tools upgrade client had created marketing, merchandising product tools to support their custom web application which needed to be re-architected to work wif ATGs e-Commerce suite Gatheird requirements for the integration of POS system wif the supply chain system Worked on projects which used RUP and Waterfall methodologies. Clarified QA team issues and reviewed test plans and test scripts developed by QA team to make sure dat all requirements will be covered in scripts and tested properly. Acted as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) on many occasions to explain in brief to the business users about the internal systems. Analysed the business and functional requirements of the application and developed detailed test plans, test cases in Test Director. Wrote Test plan and Test cases for the Integration testing and system testing. Facilitated JAD sessions wif the management, developers and analysts from all the dependant systems/applications and business users to refine functional requirements and to perform the Impact Analysis. Created mock up diagrams using MS VISIO and provided the screenshots replicating the changes to the User Interface (UI) as per the requirements. Created spreadsheets using MS EXCEL in data gathering stages for requirements mapping. Conducted walkthroughs wif the end users and stakeholders to gather the modification requests from the user to upgrade or change the specifications for the product. Performed GAP Analysis, designed new business process flows, and documented various business scenarios. Prepared PowerPoint slides to TEMPeffectively communicate wif the business users and stake holders in the meetings. Served as a Business Liaison between the Business Users and the Developers halping them in understanding the Functional behavior of the Internal Systems. Conducted Cross-functional meetings to discuss the impacts from cross functional systems. Helped the Business Users while performing the UAT testing and halping them resolve the defects in the environment. Created Testing Requirements Document (TRDs) and Test Case Scenarios to test functional changes to the system/application as per the project requirements. Used XML to look up for the specific attributes and parameters needed for testing the web application in the QAT environment. Interacted wif the testing team while developing the functional test cases and regression test cases. Kept a track of all QAT and UAT bugs/defects and halped the testers to resolve the issues and made a report of all the defects which were resolved and which were not using MS EXCEL. Facilitated Partner integration testing through triaging and routing the defects on a daily basis. Coordinated wif the testing team while Smoke Testing at the time of deployment. Environment: MS Office Suite 2007, MS Visio 2007, SQL, HTML, XML, Oracle Sales, Mercury Quality Center, RUP, UML. Confidential, Warminster, PA Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted weekly meetings for deciding the Policies and Procedures to be followed while constructing new sites. Performed the requirement analysis, impact analysis and documented the requirements using Rational Requisite Pro. Worked closely wif Merchandising, their various departments- sales, operations, finance & shipping to ensure timely and accurate requirement gathering process and development efforts using MS Project Designed and developed Activity Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams utilizing MS Visio. Documented the server farm requirements and requirements related to security wifin Share Point and using Windows Active Directory. Followed a systematic approach to eliciting, organizing, and documenting requirements of the system. Reviewed the Joint Requirement Documents (JRD) wif the cross functional team to analyze the High Level Requirements. Created Physical Inventory process for retail stores, consisted of data integration and inventory processes wif third party vendor Worked on customizations in Oracle Sales Quoting. Assisted wif the BRD for the POS implementation project Interacted wif client and the Technical Team for requirement gathering and translation of Business Requirement to Technical specifications. Prepared and analyzed AS IS and TO BE in the existing architecture and performed Gap Analysis. Performed Gap Analysis by identifying existing technologies and documenting the enhancements to meet the end state requirements. Conducted interviews, meetings and JAD sessions during the process of Requirement Gathering. Planned and documented procedures for data processing and prepared data flow diagrams for the application. Analyzed and translated business requirements into system specifications utilizing UML and RUP methodology Analyzed trading partner specifications and created EDI mapping guidelines Documented the Traceability Matrix for tracing the Test Cases and requirements related to them. Developed Data Conversion Strategy for converting data from the existing site to the new site. Prepared Demo on SharePoint for various Business to get new approvals like the Therapist and Nursing divisions. Coordinated various kinds of User Acceptance Testing (UAT) including regression testing, system testing, integration testing, functional testing, alpha & beta testing. Provided clear and concise documentation regarding requirements management plans, Functional Requirements, supplemental Requirements, Test Plans and Test Cases. Wrote Test Plans in MS Word for Manual Testing, System Testing, Integration Testing, Performance Testing, Regression Testing & reviewed their consistency wif the business requirements. Designed workflows and allocated permissions wifin SharePoint. Performed Unit Testing and User Acceptance testing and documented detailed results. Provided input (scope, goals, risks, constraints, timelines and interfaces) to PM for project planning and control. Environment: Windows 2000/XP, Microsoft Office SharePoint 2007, Rational Requisite Pro, MS Office, SQL Server, MS Project, MS FrontPage 2003, MS Access, Oracle Sales, SQL server, EDI, Documentum, UML. Confidential, Jersey City, NJ Business Analyst Responsibilities: Interacted wif business heads to finalize the Business Requirements for the application. Performed the requirement analysis and documented the requirements using Rational Requisite Pro. Support for an inventory management value assessment to improve financial performance and the customer experience by reducing working capitals and supply chain costs, and improving on shelf availability. The Supply Chain scope includes the entire supply chain from production order to shipping & delivery and order management. Managed changes to the POS system Used the requirement attributes (priority, effort, and risk) as the basis for negotiating the inclusion of the requirement, to manage the scope of the system efficiently. Developed UML Use Cases using Rational Rose and developed a detailed project plan wif emphasis on deliverables. Responsible writing Test Plans, Test Cases and Test Scripts using manual and automated testing tools from Rational and Mercury Interactive such as test Director, Winrunner. Successfully conducted JAD sessions, which halped synchronize the different stakeholders on their objectives and halped the developers to has a clear-cut picture of the project. Understand the As Is system and develop the To Be system concept and also prepare the System Process Maps. Managed changing requirements which included establishing a baseline, keeping track of the history, determining dependencies dat are important to trace, tracing relationship between related requirements and maintaining version control. Prepared and documented System Requirements and workflows for the Content Management Application tool. Checked Business Readiness and determined activities of flow. Conducted Gap Analysis to define the impact of the new requirements on the existing GUI and further prepared Business Impact Analysis Reports. Performed Unit Testing and User Acceptance Testing and documented detailed defects. Wrote Procedure Manuals and was responsible for continuity preparedness. Managed various tests, stored test information, reviewed and analyzed test results. Conducted presentations of the Q/A test results wif analysis to the stakeholders and users and documented modifications and requirements. Helped in writing Training manuals and halped business wif the Training on a one to one sessions. Employed Rational Clear Quest for TEMPeffective Change Management (Requirements Creep) and bug tracking during the testing lifecycle. Environment: Rational Rose and Requisite Pro, MS Visio, MS Project, UML, XML, Windows XP, NT/2000, HTML, Vignette Content management Tool, J2EE (JSP1.2), XML, XSL, XSLT, HTML, SQL, Oracle 9i. Confidential, TX Business Analyst Responsibilities: Followed a structured approach to gathering and formalizing business requirements expressed by managers, process owners and operational users of the information system. Worked extensively on Oracle CRM / ERP modules - Service Contract, Order Management, Inventory, Install Base, Marketing Online, Oracle Sales, Field Sales, Sales Online, Telesales, Territory Manager, Account Receivables, Siebel CRM modules. Analyzed business requirements and system architecture/design. Conducted JAD sessions wif end-users to identify user requirements and also to collaborate wif developers for application development. Responsible for implementing supply chain and operations solutions in the exploration & production lines Involved in designing User Interfaces for developing prototypes. Captured system requirements by writing Use Cases. Developed procedures for processing of data and made process flow diagrams. Involved in reviewing Entity Relationship, Data Flow, State Transition and Class Diagrams wif the Systems Analyst. Analyzed the As Is system to prepare a To Be system concept. Captured core business process information, business rules, business entities and other relevant information. Assessed risks, costs and potential benefits of alternative business process. Developed Functional Specifications and Q/Testing Requirements. Developed Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) using Rational RequisitePro to trace each software requirement. Interfaced wif developers to identify and resolve technical issues and bugs in the software to validate end-user requirements. Developed Test Cases to validate the requirements and documented the Traceability Matrix for Test Cases and Requirements. Involved in Customer Relationship Management (CRM) as well as Vendor Selection and Management Process. Interacted and communicated clearly wif development, testing and production teams concerning release management policies and procedures. Environment: UML, Clear Case 4.2, Clear Quest 6.0, HTML, Crystal Reports, MS Office, MS Visio, VCM Tool. Confidential, Indianapolis, Indiana Business Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for defining the scope and implementing business rules of the project, gathering business requirements and documentation. Responsible for writing Functional Requirement Specifications (FRS) and User Requirement Specification (URS). Analyzed Business Requirements and segregated them into high level and low level Use Cases, Activity Diagrams / State Chart Diagrams using Rational Rose according to UML methodology thus defining the Data Process Models. Performed GAP Analysis of business rules, business and system process flows, user administration, and requirements. Understand the As Is system and develop the To Be system concept and also prepare the System Process Maps. Successfully conducted JAD sessions, which halped synchronize the different stakeholders on their objectives and halped the developers to has a clear-cut picture of the project. Conducted presentations of the Q/A test results wif analysis to the stakeholders and users and documented modifications and requirements. Coordinating and Developing QA activities. Created Process Flow diagrams, Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Interaction Diagrams using Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose. Authored test plans, test cases for various test scenarios and halped testing team to better understand the test scripts. Wrote Test Cases and performed User Acceptance Testing, documented the in detail defects using the Defect Tracking report. Used Test Case distribution and development reports to track the progress of test case planning, implementation and execution results. Created Use cases, activity report, logical components and deployment views to extract business process flows and workflows involved in the project. Carried out defect tracking using Clear Quest Maintained proper communication wif the developers ensuring dat the modifications and requirements were addressed and also monitored these revisions. Involved in compatibility testing wif other software programs, hardware, Operating systems and network environments. Environment: Requisite Pro, Rational Rose, PL/SQL, HTML, MS Office, MS Visio, EDI, UML. 