SUMMARY Diversely talented professional with Six plus years of cross - functional expertise in teh IT Services and Consulting industry. Five plus years of experience managing projects in teh Insurance Services, Financial Services, Healthcare serives, Retail Service Industry. In-depth understanding of business, industry environment and business requirements. Very good knowledge of software life cycle (SLC) methodologies, RUP, and PMO processes. Extensive experience on Global Delivery Models (onsite/offshore/near-shore). Demonstrated proficiency in interaction with C-level executives and Senior Management, Operations Management, Business Planning & Strategy, Marketing Strategy, Vendor Management, Program Management (with topline and bottom-line responsibilities), Client Relationship Management, Project Planning, and Delivery Management. Excellent in Communication, marketing and presentation. Strong analytical, resolution, team management, and organizational skills. Well versed in teh usage of Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, Project Plan and SharePoint and other Project Management and Business Analysis tools. Extensive experience in creating Business processes, Swim Lane diagrams work flow diagrams and process flows. Experience in conducting Gap analysis, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), SWOT analysis and Cost benefit analysis. Self-starter and capable to work both as part of teh team as well as independently to achieve project quality goals. Excellent knowledge on Six Sigma Tools: FMEA, Fish Bone and DMAIC familiar with all teh tools and concepts. Knowledge of HIPAA compliance acts and SOX acts. Worked at CMM 5 levels Environment. Domain Knowledge & Skills: Finance, Banking, and Retirement Benefits (401K and Pension Plans). Documentation Skills: Use Case Scenarios, Process Flow Diagrams, Flow Charts, PowerPoint Presentations, Business requirements document (BRD), Functional specifications document (PRD, FSD), Business Rules catalogues, Error Message Catalogues, Traceability Matrices, Test plans, Test cases, Test Scenarios, Query/Issue logs, and Technical Documentation. TECHNICAL SKILLS Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile, Agile-Waterfall Hybrid, DevOps, RUP Project Management: Microsoft Project, Microsoft Office, JIRA, TFS Business Modeling Tools: Microsoft Visio, EA, BPMN, LML, S-BPM, BPM Suite Software Requirement Management: Rational RequisitePro, DOORS, Caliber RM, Agile Designer, CaseComplete Change Management Tools: HP Service Anywhere, Rational Requisite Pro, ClearQuest, Fresh-Service, ITIL Change Management Software Version Control Systems: Rational ClearCase, Microsoft Team Foundation Serve (TFS) Testing Tools: Rational Enterprise Suite, HP Quality Center, HP ALM Operating Systems: Windows Family, MAC OS, Unix and Linux, MS-DOS RDBMS and Databases: SQL Server, Sybase MS Access, Oracle 8/8i/10g, MySQL, IBM DB2, Teradata Reporting and BI Tools: MS SQL Server Reporting Services, Crystal Reports, Business Objects, Micro Strategy, Siebel Analytics, Cognos BI Programming Languages: SQL, PL\SQL, .Net, Visual Basic, C, C++, VC++, Java, Perl, C# PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Berkeley Heights, NJ Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Adapted Agile Methodology for software web development process. Acted as a Primary Analyst on UI Refresh project, teh requirement for this project is to re-skin teh existing customer website to make it Confidential brand specific Identified and documented teh possible gaps in teh existing customer website, which were added as enhancements to teh new customer website. Created work-flow and process flow diagrams for key business modules such as Commercial insurance, property casualty Insurance and others. Created Sample functional specification and reports, as well as High/Low Level Design, Architecture Profiling SLA, data classification, integration and other industry-standard artifact to assist teh actuaries on their day-to day analysis. Strong knowledge in property & casualty Insurance Business and products with expertise in Submissions, Clearance, policy administration, claims, Underwriting, rating across multiple channels involved in extensive data validation process to ensure teh integrity of teh data using Oracle SQL Developer. Facilitated and Co-ordinated JAD session for Requirement Gathering and Analysis purpose. Authorised Functional Documents- Business Requirement Document, Functional Specification Document, Use Cases, Traceability matrix etc. Involved in creating UAT test cases, DB design, ETL design, System Design, proposal document. Created offer matrix for offering VAS products (Value Added Services) to teh customers via marketing channels. Created IVR work-flow diagrams in visio for offering VAS products to teh customers. Worked closely with Confidential legal to unsderstand insurance fraud before introducing any new product to teh insurance customers via marketing channels. Have participated and provided requirements to teh technology team for creating a Software Development Life Cycle tool to capture teh artifacts and trace them back to teh original requirement. Teh tool will also halp in tracking teh artifacts approvals at various level of teh project life cycle. Worked closed with internal PMO and Auditing teams during different stages of project life cycles for requirement approvals and other project execution processes. Helped teh QA team by reviewing their test strategy and test cases. Conducted & Coordinated sessions between development and QA teams to explain teh requirements in detail. Confidential, Boston, MA Business Analyst Responsibilities: Adapted teh Scrum Methodology for software web development process. Developed Project plans and Statement of Work for teh complete life cycle of a project. Gatheird teh requirements and created a detailed project plan for Material Request where Customer Service representatives can provide quantities to BR clients using ICS Online. Created Screen mock up’s using mock up software tool for Material request automation. Developed teh business and functional requirements specification dat describes and prioritizes teh requirements. Communicated extensively with clients and different levels of management to identify requirements, use cases, and to develop functional specifications. Conducted JAD Sessions to resolve open issues, change requests and most importantly, to develop an architectural solution, so dat teh application meets teh business requirements. Used MS Visio to model activities and work flow process in teh business and make them more understandable to developers and system analyst. Identified and documented issues, risks, gaps, descriptions, impacts and provided recommendations and alternatives to develop teh application dat meets teh user requirements. Worked closely with teh Technical team to make sure all teh requirements were met and teh functionality was developed. Coordinated complete web deploy process of application and database changes. Coordinated testing and managed defects through mercury quality center MQC. Confidential, Windsor, CT Business Analyst/ Functional Lead Responsibilities: Gatheirdbusiness requirementsas per client specification Analyze business requirements and create Functional Specification Responsible for creatinguse caseanddata flow models Coordinated and ConductedJAD Sessionsand meeting up with teh deliverable of teh session within stakeholders, business users, application SME's, Project manager Managing meetings between clients, third party vendors, development teams and analysts.· PerformedGAP impact analysisof business rules, business and system process flows, user administration, and requirements Use case analysisand sequence diagram analysis based on teh revenue cycle of teh health care organization Created documentation onBusiness Requirements (BRD)which explained more of scope of teh project, environment, methodologies and risks involved DevelopedSystem Requirement Specifications (SRS)concentrating more on teh interfaces, mapping, business rules and teh development of User Interface Layer Involved in establishing standards and guidelines for business process modeling and teh requirements specifications Gather requirements forEnterprise Data warehousing (EDW)for teh client reporting needs. Managed teh entire functional requirements life cycle usingRational Unified Process (RUP). Involved in documentation during various phases of development life cycle Analyzed teh risks involved in teh project and developed risk mitigation solutions, plans and converted to projects Prioritized teh requirements and documented them according to teh Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) using MS Excel AssistedETLconsultant in designing and creating teh database which stores teh data generated from Informatica mappings delivery of individual subject areas UsedInformaticafor extracting data from various sources systems Created use cases, use case diagrams activity diagrams and state chart diagrams using MS Visio Developed teh Test plan for quality assurance based on functional requirements Conducted UAT testing with end users, in which alpha testing and beta testing in buffer phase of project Created test cases and test templates and guidelines to be used by teh QA team Trained business users and customers for new applications Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted JAD sessions to develop business solution dat application meets teh business requirements, resolve open issues, and change requirements. Performed Data Analysis to see teh variation in teh as is system and to be system. Conducted GAP Analysis, and created Business Rules and Error Message catalogue for teh new version of MMIS. Created Traceability Matrix using IBM Req Web to trace teh Business Rules and Error Messages to teh Business and Functional Requirements. Automated several manual processes to ease teh work of teh User. Developed Use Cases, User Stories and Activity Diagrams for teh MMIS application. Worked closely with teh offshore Technical and Testing team to make sure all teh requirements were met and teh functionality was developed as per teh Business Requirements. Worked constantly to be on teh same page as teh users and teh technical team. Have been closely working with teh quality team to documents teh test results, also been a part of testing teh Performance, and Stress along with Regression testing. Conducted many UAT’s and documented teh results. Worked with teh technical team in fixing teh bugs, and was a part of system change approval process team.