SUMMARY Business Analyst with over 8 years of experience in Business Requirement Gathering, Business Process Modeling, Understanding the Business Process Flow and Analysis and in testing the Deliverables Extensive experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Testing life cycle (STLC) from inception to transitioning with different methodologies such as Waterfall, RUP, XP, Agile Design and review of various documents including the Software Requirement Specifications (SRS), Business requirements document (BRD), Use Case Specifications, Functional Specifications (FSD), Systems Design Specification (SDS), Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) and test Cases. Excellent Skills in Performance Management to support strategic planning, goal setting, strengthen accountability, enhance decision making, and improve customer service Experience in conducting Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions for requirements gathering, analysis, design and Rapid Application Development (RAD) Excellent Analytical skills to understand the business process and Functionality, Requirements and to translate them to system requirement specifications Preparing graphical depictions of use cases including state diagrams, activity diagrams, sequence diagrams and use case diagrams Developing functional specifications for business process refinement and automation, data modeling, system Architecture, conducting feasibility studies, scope Extensive experience in IT in Finance, Banking, Insurance Experience in conducting GAP analysis, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), SWOT analysis, Cost benefit analysis, Portfolio Analysis Proficient in customizing already existing business practices, workflows, activities and deliverables Develop User interfaces and requirements sessions Providing traceability across the project by analysis and review of project elements involved in traceability including testing artifacts, end - user support documentation and training materials Extensive Documentation Skills for use in Standardization of Testing and Programming Procedures and Guidelines Extensive experience to analyze and document business requirements and system functional specifications including Microsoft Visio Strong Knowledge of UML, RUP, Rational Suite including Rational Rose, Requisite Pro Assisted QA team in developing Test Scripts, Test Cases and Test Plans for the User Acceptance testing (UAT) A seasoned professional with planning, execution, monitoring and resource balancing skills and with the ability to support multiple projects Good analytical, communication, problem solving, decision making, presentation and organization skills TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: Windows and Unix Business Requirement management tools: MS Office Sites (Excel, Word, Publisher, Outlook, PowerPointOne Note) Domain: Reinsurance, Insurance, Private Equity, Banking and Healthcare. Languages: HTML, Java, XML and SQL Database: Oracle, MS SQL Server, MS Access, Windows 98/00/XP Content Management: MS - Share Point Testing Tools: HP ALM, HP Quality Center, JIRA, Test Director, Clear Quest Other Tools: Rational Clear Quest, Rational Clear Case, Mercury Quality Center, PL-SQL, UML (Use case diagram, Context diagram, Activity diagram) Methodology: Agile Agile/Scrum, Waterfall, Rational Unified Process (RUP) Documentation Tools: JIRA, MS Office Suite - Word, Excel, PowerPoint; SVN Requirement Management Tools: Rational Requisite Pro, MS-Visio, Enterprise Architect PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Business Analyst Confidential, VA Responsibilities: Facilitated Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions, gathered requirements using interviews, document analysis, requirements workshops Analyzed the current compatibility and workflow of the applications by interviewing analysts, users at all levels of security and the support team for each of the application. Key member in a team of four Business Analysts to escalate procedures whenever necessary and trouble shoot tasks for testing. Identified problems, risks, requirements and concerns in order to comply with PII and PHI. Co-ordinated with Vendors whenever required to analyze the current compatibility and the future scope of the applications after EPIC kicks in. Identifying issues using claims adjudication terminology in both Facets and LRSP (TPX) environment. Worked on Facets to help payers efficiently execute core administrative functions, including claims processing, premium billing and customer service. Involved in Preparing Test Plan for Med Pharmacy Claims to FACETS Responsible for architecting integrated HIPAA, Medicare solutions, Facets Worked with Facets Architects to get in-depth knowledge on Providers life cycle and how can Members and Claims get affected with Providers Network setups. Interpreted and tested claims activity based upon pharmacy benefit set-up to ensure accurate processing Prepared test plans, scenarios, and performed functional and end-to-end testing of claims processing Interviewed end-users, major of them where Clinicians, Doctors and Caregivers to understand the IT complexities they face once an application workflow changes and created job - aids for the new workflow. Designed and Executed test strategies for legacy applications which were not compatible with IE11 but were critical to the day to day operations of the hospital. For end user testing, conducted WebEx sessions with the clinicians and supported them to understand the new workflow of applications. Facilitated requirement gathering by coordinating with the application analyst, system managers and departmental leads to come up with the resource documents essential to prepare for EPIC implementation. Maintained documentation on SharePoint for all the application questionnaires and the testing status throughout the hospital infrastructure, thereby creating visibility of the project for both the management as well as the Infrastructure maintenance team. Worked with the Windows Engineers to troubleshoot issues faced by the critical applications in order to maintain the smooth processing of applications as there were numerous interlinked across the departments. Documented Functional Requirement Specifications (FRD) and assisted Systems Analyst to come up with System Requirement Specifications (SRS). Responsible for producing process flow diagrams for TO-BE process flows and AS-IS process flows using Microsoft Visio. Analyzed team performance with the QA manager and implemented the changes if any, with respect to raising the efficiency of the entire team. Analyzed research on operational procedures and methods and recommend changes for improvement - with an emphasis on automation and efficiency. Worked with developers to test the iterations of the System under Development (SUD) to ensure it met the user’s needs. Environment: MS Access, MS Word, DB2, MS SQL Server, MS Excel, MS Project, Quality Center, MS Visio, Rational Rose, Clear Case, Requisite Pro, HTML, Oracle 11g, Informatica Power Center Business Analyst Confidential Responsibilities: Worked extensively with SMEs in understanding and documenting their requirements. Assessed scope and impact ofbusiness needs throughout analysis and completion of all enhancement specifications using detailed knowledge of application features and functions. Conducted workflow, process diagram and Gap Analysis to derive requirements for existing systems enhancements. Involved in creating Software Requirement Specifications (SRS) / Functional Specification Documents (FSD). Participated in design review meetings and translated the requirements to the developers and guided the team when issues related tobusinessrequirements arose. Designed and developed Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams and web page mock-ups using MS Visio. Worked withMedicareand Medicaid operational management to monitor, trend and report on operational metrics such as timeliness, workload, and staff trending, customer satisfaction, and other key measures to facilitate performance excellence. Analyzed user problems, including automated and manualbusinessprocesses and identified, researched, investigated, defined and documentedbusinessprocesses. Developed SQL Queries to fetch complex data from different tables in remote databases using joins, database links and formatted the results into reports. Worked on functionality testing, tracking the defects, preparing the defect reports using HP Quality Center. Interacted with client to present future functionality of the application and gathered information from them to understand their need and send this information to test manager. Worked closely with the application development team, design team and testing team to resolve technical issues and interacted with them to ensure overall quality of the software. Environment: Microsoft Office (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Visio, MS Access), Waterfall, MS Project, SQL, MS Excel. Quality Center Business Analyst Confidential Responsibilities: Worked closely with business unit to develop a Business Requirement Document (BRD). Prepared the Functional Specification Document (FSD) as per the client requirement. Acquired comprehensive knowledge of Banking activities and operating processes Delivered Business Processes, Use Cases, Activity diagrams, User Stories, functional and non-functional requirements in RUP and Agile methodologies. Developed wireframes using balsamiq. Reviewed design, development and test artifacts to establish traceability with requirements Created the traceability matrix and conducted GAP Analysis Involved in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and acted as the liaison between corporate business managers and IT division. Conducted and facilitated workshops and elicitation sessions with both the client as well as the IT teams. Perform data analysis and conceptualize the data requirements by implementing various data modelling techniques such as data dictionaries, Entity relationship diagrams (ERD) and glossary Involved in publishing of various kinds of live, interactive data visualizations, dashboards, reports and workbooks from Tableau. Interacted with client user teams at various associate levels to analyze current processes to design business processes utilizing UML and draw process flow diagrams utilizing Visio Adopted RUP methods for requirements and performed documentation technical team utilizing Requisite Pro. Assisted with documenting test cases for functionality testing and Verified data integrity for backend. Worked with business in developing a UAT (User Acceptance Testing). Environment: RUP, UML, balsamiq, MS Visio, tableau, MS Office Suite (MS Word, MS PowerPoint) Business Analyst Confidential Responsibilities: Interacted with Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) as part of the Requirements Engineering team to finalize the Logo. Elicit requirements by interacting with Stakeholders, development team, and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) to get a better understanding of the BusinessProcesses. Conducted and documented the AS-IS and TO-BE analysis of the business process using GAP analysis for application development. Assisted in enhancing to add the new loyalty program to the e-commerce website by writing new Business Requirement documents (BRD), use case specifications and activity diagrams. Facilitated, translated and gathered requirements and created use cases, UML models, workflow, mockups and functional designs by extensive requirement gathering sessions and Operational groups and subject-matter experts. Facilitated in the overall management of the projects including risk analysis and mitigation, status reports, client presentations, defining milestones deliverables and establishing critical success factors. Create and reviewbusinessprocess flow diagrams for reengineering efforts. Developed and validated test scenarios to ensure coverage of Business, System, functional requirements and implemented test plan. Providing key input in working with users in defining project and system requirements. Developed project delivery schedule, managed projects and identified resources to successful completion. Contributed to entire software development life cycle (SDLC) from initialbusinessrequirements to deployment & production support. Served as liaison between the business and Information Technology department in the enhancements to the existing Loyalty registry billing process and application. Submitted status reports to the higher management on the progress of the project on a regular basis. Performed GAP Analysis and conducted User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Documented and delivered Functional Specification Document to the project team. Reviewing Test Cases, execution of Test Cases. Performed GUI testing, Integration, Regression, Multi-User testing. Tracking of requirements based on the test cases uploaded in HP Quality Center. Environment: Waterfall: MS Visio, Balsamiq, Rational Rose, Manual Testing, UML, HTML, Requisite Pro, HP Quality Center, MS-Office 2007 (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, Project) 