SUMMARY Senior Business System Analyst with 8 years of experience in Business Analysis in Supply - chain, E-commerce & Manufacturing domain, working on Salesforce CRM, Inventory optimization, Order management, Risk pooling, Material requirement planning, Vendor & Warehouse management. Well versed on SIX Sigma, just in time, Lean Six Sigma Processes & SDLC methodologies like Waterfall, Agile Scrum with knowledge on Kanban, Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe) & Water-Scrumfall. Processed Request for Proposal (RFP) for potential business set-up & evaluated Statement of Work (SOW). Experience in performing feasibility study, Impact Analysis, Cost/Benefit analysis, 5-Why analysis, Pareto analysis, ABC analysis, Risk analysis & baselining acceptance criteria. Experience in facilitating Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions, gathering requirements using various elicitation techniques such as Brainstorming, Interviews, Questionnaire, Prototyping, Document Analysis, Focus Group, Reverse Engineering, Interface analysis & Observation. Experience in eliciting, analyzing & documenting Business Requirement document (BRD) and Functional Specification Document (FRD) based on the requirements elicited from Business owners, users and SME’s. Understanding of AS-IS & TO-BE processes & experience in converting requirements into technical specifications. Worked on AWS services such as EC2, VPC, RDS, EBS, S3, CloudWatch, Cloud Trail and Cloud Formation. Set up Requirement Traceability Matrices based on defined business rules to ensure all the requirements are fulfilled & all the test cases are executed according to the proposed plan. Experienced in developing & reviewing State Chart diagrams, Sequence diagrams, & Activity diagrams to define the business solution model & documented requirements using Use Cases. Assisted UI Team to understand interfaces & systems in a better way by creating wireframes & mockups Experience in writing good User stories and Acceptance criteria & handling the Requirements Churn. Assisted the PO in TEMPeffective Product Backlog Management using various tools such as JIRA, RALLY & TFS. Expertise in breaking down the epics and user stories into tasks by using various slicing and dicing techniques. Participated in Sprint Ceremonies (Backlog grooming, Sprint Planning, Sprint Review & Retrospective) & efficient in using prioritizing techniques like MoSCoW, KANO, business value, technical risk based & estimation techniques such as Agile poker, T-Shirt Sizing & Relative mass valuation. Created Users, Roles, Public Groups, implemented role hierarchies & record level permissions to manage sharing access among different users on marketing cloud of SFDC. Designed & deployed custom dynamic workflows, validation rules, Approval Processes & Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic with Sales & marketing cloud on salesforce.com. Experience working with Salesforce Classic and Lightning UI for custom theming, branding Wave and Einstein Analytics for account & opportunity insights, recommendations, prediction builder & predictive sorting. Wrote SQL to validate data in MS SQL SERVER, create Objects, Views, triggers & custom stored procedures. Used DDL, DML & DCL statements to perform CRUD operations on database queries like Joins, Subqueries & Aggregate functions to ensure Integrity between DB & UI. Experience in designing, building and deploying multi-dimensional cubes using SSAS and performed multi-dimensional analysis on those cubes using Roll-Up, Drill-Down, Slice, Dice and Pivot Operations. Strong Understanding of Source to Target Mapping rules and prepared Data Mapping Specifications artifact. Worked with ERWIN Data Modeler to identify key elements & table structures & aid database design. Created Entity- Relationship Diagrams, Identified the attributes, relationship between different tables. Proficient with SQL Server Business Intelligence tools, Data Warehouse, Normalization, Data modeling, Dimensional Modeling (star schema, snowflake schema) & Extract Transform Load (ETL) processes. Experience working with web-services using HTML, WSDL, SOAP, REST, XML, JASON in an N-Tier architecture as well as a Service Oriented Architecture driven environment. Experience in identifying & documenting REST, SOAP APIs using Swagger, testing using SOAPUI & Postman. Developed Reports / Dashboards with different Analytics Views (Drill-Down / Dynamic, Cascading Style Sheets, Pivot Table, Chart, Column Selector, Tabular with global & local Filters). Experience working on Revamping reports, dynamic reports using tools like Business Objects, Cognos. Thorough understanding of Business Intelligence (BI) practices and experience in creating interactive and analytical dashboards using Tableau for data visualization and making decisions. Experienced in Unit testing, Functional testing, Regression testing, Integration testing System testing, Black box Testing, Load testing, performance & Stress testing. Experienced in writing test cases to meet the system objectives & involved in facilitating User Acceptance Testing (UAT) to check if the software or product ca handle required tasks as per the specification. Experience tracking and analyzing defects & document them using tools like Jira & ClearQuest. Experienced in change control procedures in Waterfall & Scrum environments, experience in working with SIPOC diagram for process improvement. TECHNICAL SKILLS Tools: and TechnologyBusiness skills: Business Process analysis and design, Gap analysis, Impact analysis, Data Modelling, JAD sessions, Requirement Gathering, Requirement elicitation and documentation, Use Case Modelling, Change Management, Conflict Management Project Planning, Project Scheduling, Root-Cause analysis, SWOT analysis RDBMS and Databases: Oracle 8/9/10, IBM DB2, MySQL, SQL Server, Teradata, MS Access Reporting tools: IBM Cognos BI, MicroStrategy, Tableau, SSRS Requirement and Testing Tool: JIRA, Confluence, Microsoft TFS, HPQC v10.5, HPALM v11.5, Selenium, Rational Requisite Pro, Load runner, Bugzilla, Cucumber Programming Languages: Java, Python, C, Html AWS Stack: S3, EC2, RDS, VPC, EMR, IAM, CloudWatch, CloudTrail Web Services and Documentation: SOAP, REST, XML, JSON, Postman, Swagger, SOAPUI Operating System and Virtualization: Windows, Windows 8/9/10, Mac OS, Linux Productivity Tools: MS SharePoint, MS Project, MS Office, MS Outlook Architecture and Framework: Service Oriented Architecture, N-Tier Architecture, Cloud Platforms, Apache Web-Server, Salesforce CRM SDLC Methodology: Waterfall, Scrum, Scrum-Waterfall Hybrid, Kanban, Safe PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Melville, NY Sr Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Performed customer and market research analysis to understand and articulate customer needs, industry and technology trends, and the competitive landscape. Elicited about the scope, existing system, business values and requirements using techniques such as Document Analysis, Interviews, JAD session with the stakeholders. Interacted with the Stakeholders and Product Owner to write User Stories using JIRA, help them in estimating and prioritizing also was heavily involved in defining the acceptance criteria for each of the user stories. Documented and negotiated the SLA's (Service Level Agreements) with both internal and external providers for audit purpose and for the AWS services which were used in the system. Re-Engineered existing Business Processes to improve efficiencies before migrating to AWS Cloud. Assisted in decisions with the service model (SAAS, IAAS, PAAS) that best fits with Business needs. Organized and collaborated with the team for meeting and emails using Confluence and MS Outlook. Performed a GAP analysis between the existing design and the to-be system to understand the feasibility of the scope and performed a Cost Benefit Analysis by working with other SMEs. Designed and developed UML diagrams like Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and data flow diagram for the development team using tools such as M.S. Visio. Work closely with UI design staff to develop intuitive and compelling user experiences. Created models, mock-ups and wireframes to convey feature ideas requirements and gather feedback. Helped Implement AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer (ELB), VPC, Amazon RDS, Cloud Formation and other services of the AWS infrastructure. Assisted in implementation of AWS Route53 to route traffic between different regions and assisted in setting up a VPC network, helped create subnets and launch EC2 instances. Assisted in setting up EBS to store EC2 instance and web-server logs. Identified the stakeholders and created customized AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) polices for various AWS resources to have accessibility to required resources. Helped set up Cloud Watch alarms to send Amazon Simple Notification Service (SNS) messages. Helped monitor the alarms for any changes in the infrastructure using AWS Cloud Watch, AWS Cloud Trail. Used Cloud Watch to monitor instances for operational and performance metrics during load testing. Used Amazon S3 to store content such as product Images and Videos. Assisted in implementing a Well Architected application on AWS using Auto scaling, Lambda, SQS, SNS, ELB, Caching and Database layer as necessary. Document & integrate APIs based on JSON using REST and assisted the team in API testing using Postman. Worked with QA team to perform both manual and automation of User Acceptance Testing, Regression Testing, integration testing, performance testing, and system testing using Selenium and Cucumber. Environment: Atlassian-JIRA v7.2, Jenkins, JavaScript, MS Office 2013, AWS, Scrum, MS Visio 2013, AWS EC2, AWS IAM, Selenium, Cucumber, REST, Confluence5.9, IBM WebSphere Commerce v8. Confidential - Greensboro, NC  Sr Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Assisted in developing Project Proposal, Business Case and Business rules for the high-level requirements. Performed Gap analysis to show As-Is and To-be state of the need for the system to be implemented and performed Cost - Benefit, Feasibility and Impact Analysis to progress from problem statement to design. Helped in creating a Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) in Microsoft Project to visualize the workflow. Gathered business requirements from stakeholders and translate them into detailed requirement specification document to keep track of all the requirements for implementing the new system. Performed various Elicitation Techniques such as Brainstorming sessions, JAD sessions and Surveys. Prepared Business Requirement Document (BRD) from the elucidated requirements and helped the Product Owner and Development Team in making User Stories by using Three C’s. Involved in Data mapping, Data Modeling with SAP HANA team by writing SQL Queries in SQLScript and modelling using Cost-Element Based Approach to ensure only one cost element is assigned to each transaction. Worked with SAP integration team to manage the Master Data Management (MDM), generated invoice reports, forms to manage the invoices, catalogue and expenditure in Coupa. Supported Coupa Integration with SAP ERP using SAP IDoc, Flat File, Middleware, Coupa API. Visualized data by creating dashboards of various supplier’s purchase orders, invoices, quotation in Tableau. Created Test Plan, Test Case, Test Scenarios involved in User Acceptance Testing (UAT) by generation of Test Data inputs for both positive and negative data to enhance Fail-Over Testing. Worked with Product Owner in coordinating initiation, planning, budgeting, scheduling, task assignment, change management, status reporting and grooming product backlog by following MOSCOW Technique. Assisted with Development team in proficiently breaking Epics into User Stories by following INVEST, DEEP, DIVE with Acceptance Criteria and adhering to Definition of Ready (DoR) and Definition of Done (DoD). Worked with SAP integration team in implementing flows for Procure to pay(P2P), Procure to Order(P2O) and generated dashboards, invoice reports, forms to manage the invoices, catalogue and expenditure in Coupa. Worked with external front end vendor to get new visual design and HTML pages for the new redesigned SAP GUI by creating Wireframes using Balsamiq and documented the User Interface Specification (UIS). Applied Unified Modeling Language (UML) methodologies to design Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and class diagrams using Lucid Charts and MS Visio. Involved in System, Integration, Regression, Load Testing of Web Service using SOAPUI and Rest API using Postman. Environment: Atlassian-JIRA v7.2, SAP HANA, S/4 HANA ABAP, SAP GUI, SAP MM, Coupa, SAP HANA Live, SAP IDoc, HTML5/CSS3, REST, XML, SoapUI, Visio 2013, Tableau v9.0, MS office suite 2013 (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Outlook), Agile-Scrum. Confidential - Seattle, WA Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted JAD sessions for requirements gathering, analysis and design of the system. Translated Business Requirements into Business Requirements Document (BRD) and then translated them into Functional Specification Document (FSD) and System Requirement Specifications (SRS) Extensively involved in maintaining requirements traceability and communicating any changes to these requirements to different business groups and programmers Actively interacted with different business groups and performed GAP Analysis to identify the deficiencies in the existing legacy system by comparing the actual objectives with the system objectives desired. Assisted in extracting data from Mainframe sources and loaded them into Targets. Helped create multiple mappings that involved implementation of Business Logic to load data into staging area. Assisted in implementing the ETL logic based on the mapping document to load data sources to Targets. Extensively worked on power center tools like Mapping Designer, workflow monitor and workflow manager, repository manager to monitor and schedule sessions and workflows. Performed Data mapping activities such as preparing Data Mapping Specifications document in Excel. SQL Queries to verify data extracts and record counts in the database tables by writing complex SQL. Worked on Transformations such as Filter, Expression, Router, Lookup, Aggregator and Sorter as well. Helped configure workflows using Email Task, Control Task, Event Raise Task, Event Wait Tasks. Developed QA documentation like Test Cases and Test scenarios from business and functional requirements. Assisted in moving the successfully Unit tested ETL Mappings, Workflows and Worklets to the QA environment. Assisted in migration of Code following a thorough UAT to production and assisted in production support as well. Participated in weekly status meetings and conducted internal and external reviews as well as formal walk through among various teams and documented the proceedings and prepared test result document as well. Environment: - Waterfall, Informatica PowerCenter 9.6.1, Oracle Data Integrator, Business Objects XI 4.1, Power Exchange, UNIX, SQL Developer, Erwin, SQL, PL/SQL, MS Visio, MS Office, DB2, SQL Server, Oracle10/11g, Flat Files, Excel. Confidential - Irvine, CA  Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Interacted with various business team members to gather requirements. Served as liaison between business & technology department, conducted JAD sessions with SME to obtain domain information and converted user requirements into business, functional and technical specifications. Performed GAP analysis by creating AS-IS & TO-BE documents to identify existing system, current business process, methods to identify deficiencies, areas for improvement & enhancements. Carried out Cost/Benefit analysis (CBA) to check the net benefit and the feasibility of the project. Captured user requirements in the form of User stories and defined Acceptance criteria for each of them. Worked on various Salesforce objects such as Accounts, Opportunities, Leads, Campaigns and Reports. Created Custom Profiles for business needs and implemented Object level, Field level and Record level security. Created Users, Roles, Public Groups & implemented role hierarchies & record level permissions to manage sharing access among different users on marketing cloud of SFDC. Responsible for creating & documenting user stories, business rules, workflow diagrams & business process models (BPM) for the proposed functionality. Designed & deployed dynamic workflows, validation rules, Approval Processes & Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic with Sales & marketing cloud on salesforce.com. Integrated Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in Salesforce. Worked with Scrum Master to analyze burn-down chart, task board updates & Product Backlog reconciliation. Participated in scrum ceremonies like sprint planning, backlog grooming & sprint reviews. Involved in identification and documentation of Salesforce APIs like REST, SOAP, Bulk, Analytical APIs. Reviewed Test case, Test data & Test Scenario to make sure testing should perform properly Created various Reports & Dashboard with Tableau to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce cloud-based products such as Sales and Marketing Cloud. Closely monitored & performed Smoke tests, Facilitated UAT Sessions, worked on defect life cycle using JIRA. Environment: Scrum, Jira 7.12, Confluence 5.9, Salesforce, Salesforce Lightning UI, Einstein analytics, APEX, APEX Data Loader, Windows 10, MS Office, Tableau v9.0, Swagger v2.0, Webservices, SOQL, Visio, SIPOC, SOAPUI, Java, XML. Confidential Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Interviewed clients, SMEs & business users to understand their Business & Functional Requirements, gathering their future needs & transforming them to Functional Specifications. Converted the Business Requirements Documents into Functional Requirements document (FRD) & created low-level Use Cases. Conducted one-to-one meetings & web-Conferences as well as JAD sessions with different stakeholders; analyzed & came up with suggestions providing consistent process for the communication, escalation, & resolution of issues. Performed GAP Analysis between the "As-Is" model of the legacy system & the "To-Be" model to identify the gaps logged issues relating to the identified gaps & worked with the SME to get clarifications. Extensively involved in data mapping, logical data modeling, creating class diagrams, ER diagrams & used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle, SQL Server. Created User Interface Document to express UI component design & navigation & created wireframes & mock-ups using Balsamiq. Created Use Case documents & Process Flow diagrams using Microsoft Visio for all System Functionalities. Prepared & maintained Requirements Traceability Matrix to keep a trace of all the requirements. Tracked and documented change requests & monitored workload & schedule. Involved in unit, functional, regression & system Testing, Facilitated User Acceptance testing (UAT). Environment: Waterfall, MS Office, Windows XP, SnagIt, Balsamiq, MySQL, MS Access. Confidential  Business Analyst/ETL Developer Responsibilities: Gathered Business Requirements from the users through use of Questionnaires, JAD sessions, one-on-one interviews/Group interviews and document Analysis. Analysed Requirements in terms of Dimensional Data Elements and Measurable Facts. Documented the gathered requirements using artifacts such as Business Requirements Document (BRD), Functional Specifications Document (FSD) and System Requirements Specifications (SRS). Prepared RTM (Requirements Traceability Matrix) mapping the requirements to Test Cases. Performed Source System Identification, related tables and fields and validated data for mapping purposes. Prepared Data Mapping Specifications artifact that defines Source to Target mapping and the transformation rules using Excel. Created Conceptual and Logical Dimensional Data Model (Star Schemas) using ERWIN Data Modeler Tool. Developed SSIS Packages for Extracting data from heterogeneous source systems, transformed and finally loaded them into Data Marts. Developed various types of reports like Drill down, Drill through and parameterized reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Environment: Waterfall, MS-Office Suite, ERWIN Data Modeler, MS SQL Server2008R2, T-SQL, BIDS, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS. Confidential ETL Developer Responsibilities: Worked in a Waterfall environment and Interacted with users, Business Analysts for collecting, understanding the business requirements. Developed Complex mappings and workflows using PowerCenter designer and Workflow manager for loading data into Oracle Datawarehouse. Used Debugger in identifying bugs in existing mappings by analyzing Data Flow and evaluating Transformations. Worked on CDC to implement SCD (Slowly Changing Dimensions) Type 1 and Type 2. Developed various mappings using Mapping Designer and worked with Aggregator, Lookup, Filter, Router, Joiner, Source Qualifier, Expression, Stored Procedure, Sorter and Sequence Generator transformations. Involved in creating Test Cases, Test Scripts and Test Data for Testing of Informatica mappings and Workflows. Developed Mapplets and Reusable transformations that were used in different mappings. Involved in Performance Tuning of Sources, Targets, Mappings as well as Sessions. Develop PL/SQL Stored Procedures to implement complex business logic and integrate them with the ETL process. Environment: Waterfall, Informatica Power center 8.6.1, XML, Flat Files, Mainframes, Oracle9i/10g, SQL, SQL*Plus, TOAD, Windows NT, PL/SQL. 