SUMMARY Business Analyst with 9 years of experience in a cross - functional role engaging with business partners, engineering, QA and other teams to design, build and support web applications. Passionate and focused not only on understanding and enhancing the end-user experience, but the underlying system processes and logic as well. A quick learner adept in eliciting requirements through clear documentation, process mapping, and data modeling techniques Acted as a primary liaison/driver between Business, Product, IT, and End-users to gain a common goal on the requirements Experience of different methodologies (Agile, Waterfall, Rational Unified Process (RUP)) of SDLC In depth and strong working knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases such as planning, analysis/design, development, and testing Prominently strong in gathering business/ functional user requirements, use cases per requirements, defining project plans, sequence diagrams, delivering project/status reports and creating Business Requirement Document. Experience in conducting Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions with end users, expert team, QA team, and stakeholders for project related meetings Reviewed test scenarios and test cases for UAT and regression testing to support pre and post implementation of applications and production issues along with QA and other business groups, in addition to maintaining Test Matrix and Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) Prepared RTM (Requirements Traceability Matrix) and made sure all requirements are delivered. Proficient in MS Office (Word, Excel, Access, Visio, Power Point, Outlook, Project) for calculations, graphs, analysis, presentation and documentation. Possess reasonable understanding of different relational databases, writing SQL queries, creating tables, and generating reports Organized, goal-oriented, self-starter, and ability to master new technologies, manage multiple tasks independently. TECHNICAL SKILLS Business Analysis: Requirement Analysis, Business Rules, Data Flow Diagrams, Business Process Modeling, Gap Analysis, Cause & Effect Analysis, and UAT Tools: UML, Clear Quest, SQL, ALM, HP Quality center, Jira, .Net, Tableau Operating Systems: MS Windows, Unix Methodologies: Waterfall, RUP, Scrum and Agile Version Control Tools: Team Foundation Server (TFS), GitHub and Share Point Packages: MS Office Suite (PowerPoint, Word, Excel, Access, Project and Outlook), MS Visio. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Raleigh, NC Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible to perform detailed analysis within time constraints to transform business needs to high end business requirement and functional specification documentations and strict adherence to template while documentation was required. Link the different technical and non-technical perspectives of users from varying domains such as the business users and developer’s environment. Diagrammatic representations after intense analyzing and deciphering of user-level requirements using; UML, CASE and ACTIVITY were created. Analyzed the change detection process on Facets database tables to capture the daily changes done by Users through Online Facets Application Led projects to develop and enhance claims adjudication, eligibility, formulary, prior authorization and reporting applications internal user experience as well as expanding client product offerings Defined Functional Test Cases, documented, Executed test script in Facets system Developed a comprehensive object oriented data model for healthcare eligibility, claim and accounts for the entire product suite. Verifying Healthcare Eligibility, Claim, Benefit and Service using ANSI ASI X12 Standards. Liable to prepare TSD’s and workflow diagrams for AS-IS & TO-BE scenarios. Designed new process flows, documented business processes for varying set-up. Accountable for use case documentation, user interface design document considering from a business standard. Responsible for architecting integrated HIPAA, Medicare solutions, Facets. Analyzed and tested various Common Eligibility Outbound Interface Process and other Inbound/Outbound Facets interfaces required to interact with developers, QA to determine and report bugs and technical concerns. Defined Rendezvous point to create intense load on the server and thereby measure the server performance under load. Interact with Business Users & Application Developers during Integration testing Extensive experience in preparing test plans test metrics, test cases, test scripts and test data based on business and functional requirements. Confidential, Long beach, CA Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Interacted with the Subject Matter Experts (SME’s) and Business to understand the AS-IS and TO-BE Business Process Flow (current and future flow) throughout website. Involved throughout the System Development Life Cycle and performed a primary liaison between the business and the technical areas. Responsible for coordinating project kick off meetings and documenting meeting minutes with Health plan, SME’s, Stakeholders and IT. Worked on creating Business requirement document for all the Web Channels and send it for the business and IT approvals. Worked as a UAT lead for NY Implementation project and involved in the preparation of UAT Test Plans, Test Cases, and Test Scenarios for each project. Effectively managed cross-functional teams of developers, quality analysts, clients and vendors during the phases of SDLC. Worked closely with development and QA team to make sure all requirements are working as expected and participated in the defect triage calls. Extended support during production check out and performed a post-production validation on all WEB channels. Confidential, Woodland Hills, CA Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Elicited requirements for business applications and created Functional Requirement Documents (BRD's) Documented functional specifications based on requirements and created process flow diagrams using MS Visio. Worked with QA/UAT team in clarifying the business requirements and reviewed test plans and test scripts. Worked on creating Dashboards, weekly project status reports for CMS and higher management of Confidential . Worked on reconciliation process to tie back the number claims received from state/vendor and the processed claims sent back to the state/vendor. Created and delivered full sign-off project documentation starting from Development and ending at post-Production deliverables by working with Key Stakeholders to elicit information and gain agreement. Collaborated with on-site and off-shore developers and other analysts to implement functional specifications until achieving stakeholders' desired end results Worked with Program Managers in streamlining the existing process to meet the SLA’s in time for the project estimates deliverables Worked on Waterfall Methodology during the Software Development Life Cycle. Confidential, Austin, TX Product Manager/Scrum Master Responsibilities: Interviewed business clients to analyze their business requirements and recommend design technological improvements to their business processes and operational procedures. Developed process mapping of current and future business processes by using MS Visio. Framed detailed JAD session agenda and worked with SMEs, process owners & stakeholders on action items. Worked in a Scrum team environment and participated in backlog review and Sprint planning sessions, following Agile methodology Revised and wrote user stories based on missing or new requirements established by project stakeholders utilizing the Team Foundation Server. Assisted with testing and updating test cases in Quality Center 10 in correspondence with the applicable User Stories. Assisted developers with the Doc1 and ETL development for generating correspondence. Triaged all the production tickets from SAMANAGE and prioritizing them according to their priority and deliver them on time. Generated various SQL queries required for data analysis and data profiling. Intensively worked on claims, providers, and suppliers using Health rule manager. Worked on Agile Methodology during the Software Development Life Cycle. Confidential, NJ Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Gathered client specific business requirements and translated it in a proper manner to the developers, ensured that these requirements were fully tested and implemented accordingly for each production cycle by creating Traceability Matrix. Interacted with business, understood their business processes and gathered requirements for the Functional Requirement Document. Prepared the mapping documents, and process flow diagrams required for the project. Involved throughout the System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and performed a primary liaison between the business and the technical areas. Planned and defined system requirements to Use Case Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using MS Visio. Documented and maintained all the Project Changes Request (PCR) documents and updated them accordingly. Developed Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) using MS excel to trace each software design requirement to test case. Extracted the data from EDW (Enterprise Data Warehouse) and performed the data profiling to see how the data is coming into the source system. Worked very closely with onsite and offshore development team and helped the team in case on any clarifications required. Confidential, Lorton, VA Business Analyst Responsibilities: Interacted with the Subject Matter Experts (SME) for the Business Process Modeling. Understood the AS-IS and TO-BE Business (current and future flow) and developed the Business Requirement Document (BRD). Created Functional Requirement Document (FRD). Gathered requirements and analyzed them to convert into functional requirements. Elaborated the requirements to make sure the requirements were correct and complete. Worked on EDI 837, 835, 276, 277 processes. Prepared Data mapping document for EDI 837 to proprietary format. Updated and mentored end users throughout the Software Development Life Cycle with bi-weekly presentations and webinars. Responsible for scheduling weekly meetings with different users and documenting meeting minutes. Participated in JAD session and facilitated JAD sessions with the SMEs, process owners & stake holders and collected the meeting minutes from the session and identified various action items. Worked with FACETS software for maintaining data about the billing and health care claims management and to store, send, receive HIPAA transactions and facilitate the administration of HIPAA privacy rights. Created Use cases, activity report, swim lane diagrams to extract business process flows and workflows involved in the project using Rational Rose, UML and flow chart tools such as Microsoft Visio. Used SQL scripts/queries for data verification and validation. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Engage client to gather software requirements/business rules and ensure alignment with development teams. Translate stakeholder requirements into over 10 different tangible deliverables such as functional specifications, user cases, user stories, workflow/process diagrams, data flow/data model diagrams. Evaluate risks related to requirements implementation, testing processes, project communications, and training saving the company on average $5,000+. Identify and reconcile errors in client data to ensure accurate business requirements. Facilitate monthly meetings with clients to document requirements and explore potential solutions. Acted as a liaison between the business units and Information Technology divisions to ensure business needs were fully identified, requirements gathered and solutions developed to improve functionality and effectiveness. Prepared and coordinated user acceptance testing, tracked results and provided appropriate reporting and change recommendations. Gathered all the business requirements from the end users keeping in mind their need for the application and documented in the Business Requirements Document. Hit target deadlines for project with aggressive deadlines and immovable go-live date.