SUMMARY Business Analyst with 7+ years of experience in IT/Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), in both waterfall and Agile (Scrum) methodologies Extensive experience in Elicitation, Analysis and Documentation of requirements for Web Applications. Deep rooted understanding of all phases of SDLC using industry standard methodologies like Waterfall, Iterative/Incremental and Agile. Experience in conducting Gap - Analysis, Process Analysis as also as-Is and To-Be analysis and documentation. Proficiency in creating artifacts like Business Requirement Document, Functional Requirement Document, Use Case Document, User Stories and User Interface Specifications. Experienced in creating UML diagrams like Use case diagrams, Activity diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State Charts. Basic knowledge on Scrum tools and concepts like Scrum Team, Product Backlog, Sprint Backlog, User Stories, Daily Standup Meeting, Burn-Down Charts. Extensive experience in iterative software development methodologies including RUP, Agile (Scrum & XP). Efficient in writing Business requirements document (BRD), Functional requirements document (FRD), Use Case Specifications, Functional Specifications, Customer requirement Documents and Workflows. Extensive experience in facilitating user group meetings and gathering system requirements for web application development using Rational RequisitePro, Rally, Rational ClearQuest, Rational ClearCase and DOORS. Expert in writing detail system use cases, developing business test cases, conducting user acceptance testing (UAT) and working with QA teams during testing phase to facilitate acceptance testing with stakeholders and business users. Experience in creating automated reports from SQL and MS Access. Excellent working knowledge in Project Life Cycle and clear understanding of Project Management. Leading JAD sessions to facilitate discussions of requirements scope, priority, and dependencies. Work with application architects, developers, testing teams thereby coordinating efforts. Worked in the financial domain on applications related to online banking, credit cards, fixed income, capital markets and equities. Involved in analysis, design and quality assurance of Web based applications. Experience in developing project plan and estimating project timeline. Experienced in Defect Tracking, Closing, Status Reporting, Traceability and dashboard reports using HP ALM. Experience with collecting Test Metrics to Manage Defects and Generate Various Reports. Actively participated with Defect Triage with development team and business teams. Good understanding and hands-on experience about Change Management Process involving Implementation of Changes, Interaction Requests, Raising Tickets at various stages of product development life cycle. Worked in collaboration with development and testing team by providing detailed knowledge transfer, detailed Functional Requirement document, UML diagrams and conducting Requirements Walkthroughs. Experienced in User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Defect tracking and validation using various Defect tracking tools. Experienced in Post Production Validation and Production Support. Individual with strong analytical, coordinating, organizational and interpersonal skills to work in diverse work settings. TECHNICAL SKILLS Requirement Management Tools: Power Designer, Rational Rose Project Management Tools: MS Project Methodologies: Agile, RUP, Waterfall Databases: MS SQL, SQL Server  2000/2005/2008/2012 , Oracle 11g/10g/9i, SharePoint, DB2 Languages: SQL, XML, HTML, UML Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX Business Modeling Tools: Smart Draw, Justin Mind Prototype, Erwin Data modeler Defect Tracking Tools: Jira, HP Quality center PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Lake Success, NY Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in gathering, analysing and documenting business requirements. Functioned as the primary liaison between the business line, operations, and the technical areas throughout the project cycle. Created and maintained Project plan throughout the SDLC using MS Project and RPM Managed Project Scope, Project Schedule, Project Timelines and Resource Allocation throughout the Project Lifecycle. Created process diagrams and documentation for better understanding of the future ad-hoc projects handling strategy. Organizing periodic meetings to discuss requirements, status, issues and risks between various stakeholders. Elicited business requirements by conducting structured interviews, JAD sessions and workshops to create various business documents such as BRD, SRS, and FSD etc. Wrote user stories, flow charts, architectural diagrams, that replace the existing legacy system to a vendor supported GUI web based application, which resulted in increased customer satisfaction and reduction of manual processes. Collaborating with project sponsor, project team and other stakeholders to determine project milestones and report on progress; prepared communication and status reporting plan. Analyzed As-Is system to identify areas of improvement in current trading activities and to determine feasibility to develop To-Be system. Creation and reviewing of Functional Specifications and created a Functional Requirement Document. Understood the business logic of the proposed application and coordinated with development team to ensure it is implemented correctly. Used MS Visio to design Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams that effectively communicates business requirements using Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams. Created requirement documentation reviews with user representatives, recommended priorities and obtained user signoff. Perform user acceptance testing and post-production validation on SQL data fixes and system updates Designed structured functional testing, including review of test scenarios, test cases and execution/support of User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Used SQL to extract and transform data from various DB2 database to the data warehouse analysis by relational database system integration design. Created and reviewed business requirements, functional specifications, project schedules, and documentation. Involved extensively in the inception phase for understanding the Scope of the Project, feasibility of the implementation, and defining the risk factors involved in the project. Involved throughout business System Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Conducted JAD sessions for communicating with all project managers, senior management, and other stakeholders. Used SQL server for data analysis and provided knowledge transfer to the development team to understand the BRD document. Created Process Flow diagrams, Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Interaction Diagrams using Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose. Conducted meetings with business users and SMEs to identify and gather various functional and non-functional requirements. Helped identify reports for decision support system and interacted with database designers and architect to gather the requirements for reporting. Environment: Agile, Smart Draw, MS Visio, UML, JIRA, HTML, Oracle 11g, DB2, SQL, Clear Quest, Clear Case, Rally, HTML, UML, XML, MS Office, MS Visio, MS Project. Confidential, Reston, VA Business Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted JRP Sessions with the SMEs and managers to understand the business processes and functional details. Identified gaps in the existing systems by performing GAP Analysis on the as-is business process maps. Created the To-be business process maps to communicate the solutions to the entire team as well as to gain the approval of the SMEs and the management team. Documented the gathered business requirements into a detailed Business Requirements Document. Translated Business Requirements into functional and non-functional requirements using industry standard documentation processes like Data Flow Diagram (DFDs) and UML Diagrams (Use Case, Sequence and Activities Diagrams). Created and maintained Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) to trace technical requirements to their business requirements and the test case requirements to their functional requirements. Worked as a liaison between business and technical teams to communicate requirement prioritization and level of effort (LOE) to make sure highest value features are given higher priority. Conducted Requirement Walkthroughs with the development and test teams before the development and testing phases started respectively, to ensure that the requirements are accurately understood. Managed scope and performed Change Control and Change Management after base-lining the requirements. Assisted the software testing (QA) team in creating the test plan, test conditions, and test cases by conducting knowledge transfer sessions. Oversee daily scrum meeting with BA team. Created ad hoc reports via SQL data extraction Perform Enterprise analysis to understand enterprise architecture domains and frame work which includes Business, Data, Application, Technical Proposed and implemented business process improvement solutions across the enterprise Responsible for Gathering requirements from Stake holders Responsible for creating requirement artifacts like Business Requirements Document (BRD) and Functional Requirement Document (FRD) Worked in SQL server for data analysis and mentored the development team to understand the business requirement in the phase of development. Perform feasibility analysis to evaluate multiple options and determine best fit solution Perform GAP analysis to evaluate solution scope by doing an AS IS to BE comparative study Facilitating JAD sessions to elicit high level and detailed requirements from key stakeholders, SME's, end users and technology leads Developed survey questions to elicit and prioritize the functional requirements Resolved stakeholder conflicts and ensured no scope creep during project implementation Evaluate risks related to requirements implementation, testing processes, project communications Documenting Use cases for functional requirements Documented and maintained Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) to ensure proper requirements management Created User Acceptance Testing (UAT) plans with several test scenarios to ensure that the proposed features and functionalities are functioning correctly. Assisted in the development of User Training materials for the upgraded version of the existing system technology and process improvements. Environment: RUP Methodology, Power designer, MS Visio, My SQL, Oracle, DB2, UML, XML, RUP, MS Office, MS Visio, MS Project. Confidential, Riverwoods, IL Business Analyst Responsibilities: Communicated project requirements, business issues and made recommendations. Worked with gathering requirement from stake holders and SMEs by interviewing them, also prepared questionnaires and receive their feedback. Conducted requirement walk-throughs with key stakeholders using various methods like team demos, workshops during sprint planning and backlog refinement sessions. Worked as liaison between Business units and Data Modelers, Technical System to study the data lineage and creating the data mapping document. Drafted Business Requirement Document (BRD) for the specific business requirements and Functional Specification Document (FSD) capture the functional requirements. Wrote Use cases for all the functionalities and developed Use case diagrams. Helped the team overcome a technical barrier by creating and updating use case diagrams, Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams, Data Flow Diagrams using MS Visio. Prepared Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) report to ensure that every Business requirement is adhered to achieve the expected performance. Participated in JAD sessions with different stakeholders and resolved their issues. Created and maintained the Requirements definition documents that included Business requirements. Involved in defining the scope of the project by performing gap analysis, preparing required artifacts, and then creating the functional documents for design and implementation of the project. Created use case diagrams, flowcharts and process models, by documenting business work flows both bitext and by activity diagrams. Worked with creating system and user acceptance test case scenarios and communicated with clients accordingly. Involved in UAT to check the functionality of the proposed system along with other end users of this application. Environment: Waterfall methodology, MS word, MS Project, MS Share point, Microsoft Visio, SQL server, JIRA. Confidential Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Study the existing system to understand the Process. Gather feedback from end users at branch level about the functionality of the Application within various departments. Analyzed, designed, formulated functional specs and guided the development of entire report generation process. Extensively worked in Agile/Scrum Methodology framework especially within a Mobile/Tablet/Mobile Web application ecosystem. Worked in great collaboration with Product Owners to manage Product Backlog for agile software development teams. Analyzed business user needs, translating into SRS documents and worked on SQL for data analysis. Supported agile software development team with Scope considerations throughout the development cycle. Driven process definition and improvement for the release projects and worked closely with Agile Coach on improving overall agile development. Responsible for SQL error resolution of the DB2 system handling national outages and system abends. Participated in Scrum meetings to answer team questions, ensured the requirements are understood and assist in providing any additional documentation for successful development. Wrote concise and effective User stories while fostering agile principles and methods for requirement gathering. Defined precise and accurate User Story Acceptance Criteria that was used by developers, testing team and by Product Managers to ensure that Product Managers' intent is effectively captured. Used JIRA for User Story requirements management throughout the Agile Sprints and development life cycle. Involved in conducting brainstorming sessions to gather new requirements. Validation of framework manager packages to check start schema implementation. Prepared the BRD document and explained the process to the management and the development company. Responsible in taking feedbacks after enhancement of new features. Worked with Development and Testing team when required. Involve in UAT to check the functionality of the proposed system along with other end users of this application. Environment: HTML, Oracle, UNIX, DB2, RUP methodology, UML, Rational Requisite Pro, Enterprise Architect, MS Project, MS Office, SQL. 