SUMMARY 6 years of working experience as a Business Analyst with a track record of managing complex IT projects in the Financial Services domain. Excellent experience in the business analysis and application development field with a commitment towards perfection in work entrusted upon and seeking professional excellence in all endeavor assisted by the right opportunity. Strong analytical and logical skills combined with experience in various cycles of a software development including development, testing, implementation and maintenance of applications. Proficient in facilitating large meetings to help define vision, scope, requirements, design, and risk mitigation plans. Full understanding of the SDLC: requirement analysis and business specification, development, enhancement, quality assurance, testing including developing Test Cases and Test Scripts. Experienced in conducting User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Organized Joint Application Developments (JAD) sessions and Joint Requirement Planning sessions (JRP), walkthrough, Interviews, Workshops and Rapid Application Development (RAD) sessions with end - user/clients/stake holders and the IT group. Excellent skills in Business Analysis, Data Analysis, Gap Analysis, Requirement Analysis, Business Modeling and Use Case Development using UML methodology. Well-versed in documentation of, Business Requirements Documentation (BRD), Functional Specification Documentation (FSD), Current-State and Future-State Process Models, Performance Indicators. Excellent facilitation skills in conducting walkthroughs, surveys, questionnaires, interviews, brainstorming and Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions. Experience with SQL queries to retrieve and manage data in Data base. Trained on Agile Scrum Software development methodology implemented agile concepts such as sprint cycles, product backlog and sprint backlog, user stories, sprint review, sprint retrospective etc in real time projects. Competent at performing gap analysis, root cause analysis, business process improvement and business process reengineering projects. Extensive experience in creating Screen Mockups, prototyping, SWOT Analysis, Cost benefits Analysis, Risk Analysis, User acceptance Testing (UAT), Post Production Validation (PPV) and demos for the users. Extensive knowledge in designing databases in star and snowflake schema methodologies. Proficient in problem analysis, solution development, and implementation planning over the entire Software Development Life Cycle. Exposure to Client/Server, Web Application developmental tools and Software development and design. Process/tools including Java, Oracle, SQL Server, MS Visual Basic, JavaScript, HTML, Microsoft Project tools, Reporting tools, XML, Rational Unified Process (RUP). Perfect liaison between senior management and IT developers & QA team. Experience in solving complex problems, team coordination and motivation skills as well as the ability to communicate successfully across cultural barriers. Quick learner and willing to contribute in a team environment TECHNICAL SKILLS Project Methodologies:  Waterfall, Agile (SCRUM) Business Modeling Tools: MS Visio Requirement Management Tools: Caliber RDM, Caliber RM Defect Tracking Tools:  JIRA, HP QC-ALM Operating Systems:  Microsoft Windows Xp, vista7, Mac OS X Databases:  MS SQL Server Tools: MS PROJECT, SQL, SharePoint, MS Office, MS Excel PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Sr. Business Analyst Confidential, Houston TX Responsibilities: Responsible for taking requirements from business users, understanding Business Needs by scheduling meeting at regular basis. Used Agile Methodology in collecting requirements and sending them for development, which was carried using an iterative approach. Involved in creating the Project templates, use case specifications, Change request form, functional specification documents, and Business Requirement documents. Followed UML based methods using Visual Paradigm to develop use cases and activity diagrams; assisted developers in creating sequence diagrams and collaboration diagrams. Worked with cross-functional teams for building use cases, demonstrating the business requirements, developing business models; Designed and developed business flow diagrams, activity diagrams, sequence diagrams, object-oriented models using MS Visio. Conducted Model reviews with project team members; Publish and communicate models to various IT and business-based teams. Conducted data analysis to provide all facets of Business Performance and produce added value reporting to senior management. Conducted data mapping to collect and show relations between data from dashboard function to the ODS table on PeopleSoft database, represented this mapping using ERDs, and Process Modeling DFD's on MS Visio. Proactively prepared scenario analysis of different product mix and identified the areas of improvement and solutions to meet the customer needs. Organized JAD sessions to flush out requirements, performed Use Case and work flow analysis, outlined business rules, and developed domain object models. Utilized Management Information Software (MIS) and Financial Accounting Software (FAS) that ensured daily balancing of accounts and vendor reconciliation. Built total Revenue Cycle Management (RCM) processes to improve the revenues. Involved in UAT process and coordinated with the UAT team to get the feedback to make change requirements document. Performed Gap analysis by identifying existing technologies, documenting the enhancements to meet the end state requirements. Conducted performance tuning to primarily focus on writing efficient SQL Queries to generate reports. Worked with the design team to assist them extensively in designing the database. Documented Business and Test Plans based on gathered requirements; involved in executing existing test scripts, writing and updating new test scripts. Designed, developed, and maintained various business unit reports by using Teradata, SQL, and MS Excel. Created Teradata SQL Assistant scripts, temp tables to be compatible for the monthly segmentation and migrated tables. Produced daily, weekly and monthly reports, on-time and accurate, on process and business performance to various stakeholders. Environment: MS Visio, MS Project, Reporting tools, Gap Analysis, Java, HTML, CSS, RCM, SQL, MS Office, Agile, Oracle. Business Analyst Confidential, Southfield MI Responsibilities: Analyzed and gathered business requirements, identified system interfaces and created the requirements specification document. Designed and analyzed Business Process Modeling, Use Case model and test procedures based on agile methodology. Involved in Process Management to enable the activities of planning, monitoring the performances of a process. Wrote User Requirements Specification (URS) and Functional requirements specification (FRS) Documents as per the Business requirements and process flow. Specified the system architecture and design utilizing the UML Analysis and Design Models. Performed Requirement Analysis to Develop Use Cases, Activity Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams. Documented conceptual design of Application in System Specification Document. Controlled project scope identified and resolved key issues and risks. Conducted JAD sessions and meetings with developers, QA team, and users for communicating primary requirements, also discuss different versions of requirements, queries, and clarify the issues. Extensively interacted with both user group and development team in coming up with structured charts, Class and sequence diagrams. Managed and tracked change control process of requirements and design changes using Rational Requisite Pro. Documented the changes, issues and their impact on the system design and delivery. Performed requirement analysis by gathering both functional and non-functional requirements based on interactions with the process owners & stake holders and document analysis, represented them in Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM). Facilitated and managed meeting sessions with committee of SMEs from various business areas including estimating resource and budget requirements. Designed and implemented basic SQL queries for QA testing and report, data validation. Managed plan and design of backup data center infrastructure build-out and participate in business continuation/disaster recovery planning. Created complex reports by linking data from multiple data providers, using free hand SQL, stored procedures and functionalities like Combined Queries. Created and execute of test plans and test suites using Selenium; exploratory/ad hoc testing; bug documentation and regression and summary writing. Imported data from various transactional data sources residing on SQL Server, DB2 and Flat files and loaded into Oracle database. Performed extensive requirement analysis including data analysis and Gap Analysis. Played a key role in User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Developed test plan, test scenarios, test cases and implemented test plan with QA team using Mercury Quality Center/Test Director. Environment: MS Project, MS office, MS Visio, Java, HTML, Gap Analysis, SQL, Agile, Oracle and Windows. Associate Business Analyst Confidential Responsibilities: Worked in Agile environment. Worked with production staff from different product groups to identify and map detailed AS-IS processes, identify gaps and failure points, perform root cause analysis and develop functional requirements that supported overall strategy, goals and objectives. Acted as a liaison between different cross- commits for proper communication. Developed use cases for new product functionalities after conducting requirements elicitation sessions with the users and the senior management. Performed GAP analysis for business processes and aligned them with the strategic plan and roadmap. Designed and developed reporting requirements to monitor activity on critical issues to ensure they are resolved within the established SLA requirements. Interviewed users after the Beta release, created process maps to identify and document root causes of inefficiencies / areas of opportunities and created Process Change Requests (PCR) to create efficient processes. Created Problem Tracking Reports (PTR) to monitor and track the resolution of the issues in the product.