SUMMARY Over Ten years of Solid experience as a Senior Business Analyst/Scrum Master/Project Management in digital marketing domain. Scrum Alliance Certified Scrum Master to help teams successfully implement Scrum and Agile best practices for organizational success. Experience in Managing the products with project plans, initiations, analysis, design, implementation, deployment and further maintenance. Thorough understanding of Data Management, Data Analysis. Played an instrumental role in automating current and past platform to improve efficiency. Knowledge of monitoring and tracking project milestones and deliverables identify project needs, co  - ordinate team activities, assign duties, responsibilities and time spans of authority. Experience in managing end-to-end execution of multiple front-end testing projects of the development cycle for gains in code quality, software functionality and programmer productivity with focus on high quality metrics. Strong knowledge of requirement gathering, use cases and Functional requirements documentation. Experience in creating artefacts like Business Requirement Documents (BRD), Functional Specification Document (FSD), creating Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), and GUI Mock-up screens. Sound understanding of gap analysis, requirement management, risk analysis and project plans. Experience in SharePoint best practices and advice regarding site set-up, site security, maintenance, and future needs. Experience in Visio diagrams/wireframes (using swim lanes) and Excel wire frames. Extensive experience in business process modelling using visual modelling tools such as MS Visio, Star UML, MS Office tools. Extensive experience in UML modelling like activity diagrams, sequence diagrams, use case diagrams, process flow diagrams and class diagrams for better understanding of the functionality. Experience in conducting joint application development (JAD) sessions with IT Groups and conflict management with project team members. Extensive experience in understanding the business process functionality and to translate them to system requirement specifications. Experience in writing test cases, test plans and successfully performed system, regression testing. Experience in UAT, Functional, Integration, and Regression on different configuration, Database testing; analyzed/documented the test phase results and familiar with various testing methodologies. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills for effective interaction with clients. Detail-oriented energetic team player, motivated with multi-tasking capabilities, problem solver, and hands-on experience with presentation and client/customer relation skills. Strong analytical skills, administration and problem-solving skills to maintain the high-quality standards. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating System:  Win7/8/VISTA/XP, Server 2003/2008, Centos 6.5-7.1, Mac OS X SDLC:  Waterfall, Agile (Scrum), Integrated (hybrid), prototype, Incremental, spiral, RAD Business Modelling Tools:  MS Visio, MS Office tools, Star UML Project Management Tools:  SharePoint, JIRA MS Office Tools:  MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Outlook, MS Access Testing Tools:  HP-QC, Selenium, Bugzilla, Load Runner, ALM Testing Skills: UAT, Integration, Regression, System, Black Box Database: MariaDB, MS SQL server 2012/2008, Oracle Cloud: AWS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Senior Business Analyst/Scrum Master/IT Project Manager Confidential, Los Angeles CA Responsibilities: Working as liaison between the business and IT department. Conducted Brainstorming sessions, meetings with users and other stakeholders to elicit, organize and document the requirements and created project status reports and feasibility reports for stakeholders. Created prototypes and wireframes to obtain stakeholder approvals. Developed Business cases, Charter RFI, RFP, Selection recommendation for other initiation documents. Evaluating, Analyzing the business requirements and segregating them into high level and low-level requirements. Identified, analyzed, developed and maintained functional and technical requirements for proposed sub applications of Golden Lantern, including but not limited to, process flows, online screen layouts, and reports. Translated customer’s needs into functional requirement Document (FRD). Facilitated business analysis by requirements gathering using Agile & Scrum. Managed project resources, budget, milestones, risks and user acceptance tests (UAT) with internal and external stakeholders. Created and documented process flows, diagrams, UI, mock-ups, and/or models for the development teams using Visio, MS word, Excel, PDF and SharePoint. Operated as the lead to identify and document reporting requirements. Maintained the project document repository on SharePoint. Interpreting data about company workflow and policies. Conceived and implemented the project governance guidelines for all critical applications. Designed and developed use cases, activity diagrams, and sequence diagrams using MS Visio. Prepared the mock-ups for the BU to help them understand As-Is and To-Be process. Act as the subject matter expert during development of business process documentation and outline requirements. Analyzed the results, generated reports and tracked the defects using Quality Centre; Created and maintained the Test and Traceability Matrix. Researched and wrote backlog of user stories, test cases for QA teams, defects and tech debt for SCRUM teams and maintained backlog. Perform business-to-systems analysis and problem-solving analysis of complex functional issues and enhancements. Handle cross collaborating with the other BAs from downstream applications and maintain Business Stakeholders' relationship, coordinating with offshore. Environment: Windows Server 2008, 2012, SQL Server 2012, Oracle, MS Excel, MS Visio, PHP, Java, HTML5, CSS JavaScript, UML, Agile (Scrum)-Waterfall (Hybrid), HP Quality Centre (HPQC), SharePoint, JIRA, Laravel 5.5, php7.1, MariaDB 10.2, VueJs 2, Bootstrap 3, jQuery, Redis, integrations with AWS S3, AWS EC2, Stripe, and mail gun, Centos 7 OS running Apache2, npm web pack, axios, SharePoint, TFS, COGNOS. Business Systems Analyst/Scrum Master Confidential, New York City Responsibilities: Initiated and drove the adoption of Agile practices to improve productivity within Solution Delivery space. Worked closely with business users in defining the scope, analyzing business requirements and segregating them into high level and low-level requirements. Formed a bridge between the Project Manager and the development team with effective presentations. Documented and reported previous projects and follow ups for step-by-step project manuals. Conducted JAD sessions with users across the Industry to identify the requirements, use case analysis and outlining business rules. Worked on to eliminating any project/tasks blockages for developers and other project team members ensuring the successful delivery. Developed the business and functional logic for the models. Worked with project managers and development team to prepare financial analysis documents towards the successful implementation of the Upgrades. Involved in gap analysis, data analysis to identify any data gaps and eradicate any bottlenecks and minimize risks in the business processes. Assisted in preparing risk management and minimization plans from the issues and data gaps identified. Actively involved in walkthroughs and meetings with project team to discuss related business and project issues. Extensively involved in test plan, design, data validation with SQL statements, and report testing as per business requirement. Involved in system and regression testing to ensure that the compiled software components of the applications adhere to project standards, performance criteria and functional specifications. Defects were tracked, reviewed, analyzed and tracked using Mercury Quality center. Facilitated User Acceptance Testing (UAT) with the business users and communicated the change requests resulting from the UAT. Created burned down charts/ Scrum status reports for leadership from JIRA. Environment: Agile Scrum Methodology, HP QC, My SQL, JIRA, MS SQL Server, J2EE 1.4, Java 1.5, XML, JavaScript, Oracle, C, C++, SharePoint Business Analyst Confidential, New York City Responsibilities: Participated in meetings with developers, project managers and quality analysts to discuss business requirements, test planning, resource utilization and defect tracking. Interfaced with business users to create Business Requirements Document (BRD) and Functional Specifications Document (FSD). Worked with cross functional business teams and stored project artifacts using JIRA. Developed business requirement and specification documents as well as high-level project plan and translated business requirements into process models and use cases using MS Visio. Performed JAD sessions with stakeholders and business users to gather and document requirements. Analyzed requirements and did use case analysis designing use case diagrams, and sequence diagrams using UML approach. Worked on ‘AS-IS’ and ‘TO-BE’ models to enhance the existing system. Was an integral and active team member during the sprint and scrum ceremonies. Participated in the change management control process for the projects by facilitating group meetings and/or one-on-one interviews/meetings with work stream owners to discuss change request impact on timelines and scope Assured all artifacts/signoffs were following corporate policies and guidelines and archived. Reviewed test cases, test scenarios and was involved in the UAT of the application. Linux Systems Administrator/Analyst Confidential, New York City, NY Responsibilities: Managed the front-end system that configures client access to resources and data availability. Debugged the interactions between the third-party software, our customer software, and external systems Documented and reported previous projects and follow ups for step-by-step project manuals. Coordinated with the Data Centre Team to ensure servers are maintained in accordance to Security Technical Implementation guidelines. Administered of a medium sized fleet of Linux servers. Mail Server Installation/Configuration based on send mail in Cent OS Linux. Deployed Virtual Private Networks Installed, configured, and maintained ELK stack systems. Network Administration/Configuration, User/Group Management Responsible for System Backups, Partitions, Mounting and Unmounting file systems Created and Maintained Databases Maintained Systems security which includes firewall management on a regularly scheduled basis. Maintained Web servers, file servers, firewalls, and directory services, and set up user accounts. Monitored all sorts of metrics on advertising servers (Memory, Disk Space, CPU, Processes, Analyze and co-ordinate system outages and interruptions). Installed and configured DNS Server on Linux, Manage and maintain the DNS servers, DNS clients, DNS zones, and zone propagation. Created and maintained documentation and procedures for system administration support. Managed of trouble ticket queues, delegating tasks, escalating and debugging problems appropriately Interfaced on regular basis with third-party vendors of servers and software System and network monitoring. Environment: Agile Scrum Methodology, CentOS (6.9-7.3), Ubuntu, Fedora, Redhat, Debian, Windows, MySQL, JIRA, MSSQL Server, PHP, C, Perl, Python, J2EE 1.4, Java 1.5, HTML, XML, JavaScript, Oracle, ELK, Logstash, Kibana, Nagios, Cacti, Redis Systems Analyst Confidential, Newark, DE Responsibilities: Conducted interviews and brainstorming sessions with the key stake holders during the process of requirement gathering. Performed feasibility studies to check the compatibility of new system with various interfaces. Documented BRD using MS Word and stored project artefacts using MS Project. Analyzed business needs and played a key role in planning and implementing web-based database. Planned and documented procedures for data processing and prepared data flow diagrams for the new web-based database. Designed and developed use cases and activity diagrams using MS Visio to analyze and translate business requirements into system specifications. Conducted concept sessions, workshops and stand-ups successfully towards efficient outcome within given timeline and financial boundaries focusing on conflict resolution and client vendor relation management. Developed business process models. Interviewed stakeholders and product owners towards final requirement gathering and analysis. Performed data mapping, data mining through the cycle towards best outcome. Performed logical mapping, field-to- field mapping and end to end process analysis. Conducted business process according to the defined standards and adhered to the corporate security policies. Environment: Agile Scrum Methodology, MS Visio, ASP.NET, SQL Server 2005, Rational Requisite Pro, Rational Clear Quest, Rational Clear Case, UML, Windows 2000, UNIX, Microsoft Office suite, Quality Centre (QC), Bugzilla 3.2. Data Analyst Confidential, Poughkeepsie, NY Responsibilities: Designed and created a data management system for small businesses which keeps track of customers, items and inventory, and generate reports based on sales. Environment: Microsoft Visio, SQL Business Analyst/tester Confidential Responsibilities: Identified, documented and reported bugs, errors, interoperability flaws and other issues within proprietary software applications. Demonstrated methodical, detail-oriented and thorough approach to all assignments while adhering to compressed timelines. Completed all assignments on or ahead of schedule. Consistently recognized for excellent problem-solving and analytical skills by programmers, project managers and supervisors. Worked collaboratively with QA, development and business groups to complete comprehensive testing on 2 major new releases.