SUMMARY Fifteen plus years of IT experience in Consulting and worked wif teh Major clients for teh Implementation/Support projects on various Business Domains. Ten years of relevant experience as a Business Analyst as Business /Systems Analyst in eCommerce, Telecom, Finance and Banking Domain in all phases of Software engineering, such as Business and software systems modeling wif UML (Unified Modeling Language), in requirement gathering (functional specification/use cases), systems analysis and design, debugging and testing, acceptance tests, start - up, troubleshooting and training. Conducted JAD sessions wif extensive involvement from Business, Development, Testing teams, Architects, SME’s (Subject Matter Experts) and Managers of various Business Units. Experience in Software Analysis & Design, Gathering Functional and Business Requirement Specifications, User Interface Specifications, Technical Design, Test Cases and Test Plan. Modeled requirements, managed and communicated requirements throughout teh project life cycle, performed Gap and Impact Analysis against requirement specifications to determine fit. Proficient in performing Gap Analysis, evaluating teh key differences between teh actual and teh potential performance of teh system and identifying teh key requirements for system reengineering. Used MS Office extensively (Word, Excel, Access, Visio, Power Point, Outlook, Project) for calculations, graphs, analysis, presentation and documentation throughout teh project. Expertise in identifying, developing and Functional Requirements Specifications(FRS), User Requirements Specification(URS), System documenting Business Requirements Specifications(SRS), nonfunctional requirements, Business rules and Supplementary Specifications. Experience in writing functional/requirements documents for all teh devices (Laptop, Mobile and tablets) Excellent verbal and writtencommunication skills and teh ability to interact professionally wif a diverse team (User Experience Group, Lead Engineers, Quality Assurance Team, Subject Matter Experts, Technical Product Managers and Project Manager. Innovative, excellent team player yet performs well on solo projects and possesses good requirement and data analysis skills. Worked on wireframes, for creating mock screens. TECHNICAL SKILLS Process:  RUP - Rational Unified Process, Waterfall, UML, Agile Visual Modeling Tools:  Visio, Enterprise Architect, OmniGraffle Applications: Microsoft FrontPage XP, UML, SQL Requirements:  Rational Requisite Pro Databases: Microsoft Access, Oracle Testing Tools: UAT, Test Director Project:  MS Project Documentation Tools:  SharePoint, MS Office (Word/Excel/Power Point/Visio) Platforms: Windows 95/98/2000Pro/NT/XP Pro, MS - DOS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Senior Business Analyst/Scrum Master Responsibilities: Acted as Scrum Master for Product teams wif a focus on guiding teh teams towards improving teh way they work. Acted as a Project Manager when necessary Acted as a Business Analyst and gatheird requirements. Coached team members on Agile principals and providing general guidance on teh methodology Continuously learned Agile/Scrum techniques and shared findings wif teh team Facilitated getting teh work done wifout coercion, assigning, or dictating teh work Facilitated sprint planning, retrospective and sprint demos. Helped team to solve problems rather TEMPthan provide solutions. Worked to automate repetitive tasks and processes in order to maximize performance. Collated business requirements, and then translate those into functional specifications and detailed test plans. Providing information to operations management teams to enable them to look at different angles. Worked wif business clients and other infrastructure groups to resolve business and systems issues. Maintaining system protocols by writing and updating procedures. Participating in meetings, workshops, and technical meetings. Establishing and maintaining communication channels wif senior managers, key team members and stakeholders. Conducted research into project-related issues and products. Document business requirements and also define its scope and objectives. Planning business analysis activities. Implemented Company’s business standards in SharePoint. Designed training plans and develop a SharePoint functionality and encourage self-sufficiency. Using analytical tools, reports and Key Performance Indicators to monitor operational performance. Proposed SharePoint based solutions to improve existing business challenges. Designing and executing test scenarios and test scripts. Applying company IT, design and documentation standards to all tasks. Developing estimates for business analysis tasks. Working wif UX team to in corporate teh workflow into wireframes. Provided Visio diagrams/wireframes and Excel wire frames to teh customer to socialize teh customer on teh development process. Working wif UI designer in creating designs and UI developer to cover all UI elements Roster Management is dealing wif teh entire roster uploads from SIS Part of Roster management project is also focusing on web portal halp for tech admins and cross selling additional products to different school districts. Used SharePoint for document management, used it primarily to upload/download content or any important documents shared wif teh team. Environment: - Agile Methodology, JIRA, MS Office, In vision APP, SharePoint, OmniGraffle Confidential Sr. Functional Analyst Responsibilities: Assisted in shapingand delivering digital solutions for clients that solve tangible business problems in creating pages. Lead interviews to define business goals, elicit business requirements and understand business processes. Determined documentation needs and manage teh documentation efforts. Defined and documented business requirements. Prioritized requirements collaboratively wif business stakeholders, creative, user experience and technology disciplines. Facilitate client decision-making at project team level through formal and informal working sessions and reviews. Teamed up wif Creative team to do Mockups and wireframes. Review design deliverables for consistency and as a source of requirements. Confidential Responsibilities: Assisted in shapingand delivering digital solutions for clients that solve tangible business problems in creating pages. Lead interviews to define business goals, elicit business requirements and understand business processes. Determined documentation needs and manage teh documentation efforts, added all teh required documents in Confluence. Defined and documented business requirements. Prioritized requirements collaboratively wif business stakeholders, creative, user experience and technology disciplines. Facilitate client decision-making at project team level through formal and informal working sessions and reviews Review design deliverables for consistency and as a source of requirements Conducted Smoke testing and created bug/ defects /issues in JIRA and assigned to appropriate developers. Followed up and closed tickets. Serve as a subject matter expert for teh internal team and provide input into other deliverables as appropriate (e.g. wireframes, design comps, etc.) Participated Planning and scoping FA work streams. Assisted AEM development team to understand teh functional requirements and answered all teh questions raided by teh AEM tech team to build teh templates. Assist in planning development tasks and provide development support Contribute to business development efforts. Conducted walkthrough sessions (KT) wif teh development team and TCoE (QA) Team Plans ensuring that teh test cases reflect teh user needs. Environment: Agile Methodology, JIRA, Confluence, Version one, MS Office, Evernotes. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Elicited requirements using document analysis, requirements workshops, business process descriptions, use cases, scenario analysis, task and workflow analysis Create a UX (User Experience) that supports their student users and gives them teh ability to take assignments on teh tabletthe goal is to deliver Next Generation Student UI experience. Wrote user stories, manage product backlog using industry standard project management tools such as JIRA. Conduct sprint planning, sprint retrospective meetings and daily scrum meetings. Proactively communicated and collaborated wif external and internal business stakeholders to analyze information needs and functional requirements and deliver Worked independently wif business stakeholders to define concepts and under direction of project managers Collaborate wif developers and subject matter experts to establish teh technical vision and analyze tradeoffs between usability and performance needs. Drive completion of UAT and Production validation wif teh different business teams, including coordinating testing of report changes, gathering test scripts, and managing issue resolution JIRA. Liaison between teh business units, technology teams and support teams. Environment: Agile Methodology, JIRA, MS Office, OmniGraffle Confidential UI Business Analyst Responsibilities: Worked on understanding teh current state in Life ray (existing Site) and documented (UI (User Interface) Elements and Description) teh required changes for Future state (future Site). Worked on high level requirements into functional business requirements for development resources (white boarding, user focus groups, conceptualization, design). Worked closely wif project managers, business users to formalize a business idea and define requirements. Conducted JAD and brain storming sessions wif teh business users and stakeholders. Conducted meetings wif all teh division supervisors to ensure that all teh requirements are met. Interact wif teh business users and work close wif them to understand their business needs and opportunities. Identified significant issues for clients and prepared options for solutions on ecommerce site Responsible for halping clients to keep their ecommerce sites ahead of industry trends. Implemented teh approved suggestions and modified teh current process flows. Created Requirement Traceability Matrix to make sure teh current project requirements are being met. Created prototypes, mockups and wireframes for visual understanding of future state. Implemented teh concepts and requirements for B2B and B2C users in design docs. Worked closely wif different third party vendors to gather information and coordinate required information from them. Worked on mapping content and recognized teh type of teh content to be gatheird and worked initial draft to create folios in oracle web center. Gatheird knowledge in Search Engine Optimization (SEO), OCM, UCM, GSA procedures for web positioning. Work wif Development and QA teams to transition business requirements into QA test cases and assist in UAT. Environment: ACE, Wiki, EBS, MS Office, Windows, Axure, Greenshot, Windows, Visio Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in designing business requirement collection approach based on teh Project scope and SDLC Methodology. Coordinated and prioritized outstanding risks and enhancement/system requests based on business requirements, allowing sufficient time frame to ensure accuracy and consider deadlines. Worked on Quality Center to capture, trace and manage requirements during teh projects lifecycle. Conducted JAD sessions wif Project’s Stakeholders identifying problems and coming up wif best alternative to resolve that. Created targeted Questionnaires for SME’s to gather requirements. Implemented UML methodologies to design Use Case Diagrams, Data Flow Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams. Created Use-Cases and Business Use-Case Model after accessing teh status, scope of teh project and understanding teh business processes. Interviewed Subject Matter Expert’s to recorded requirements that could be reviewed and understood by management and all other stakeholders. Managed all teh requirements in MS Word templates, making requirements available to all team members. Performed Feasibility Analysis and Risk Analysis on vendor/third party tools. Conducted walkthroughs wif teh development team and QA Team and other relevant stakeholders to review Testing Strategies and Test Plans ensuring that teh test cases reflect teh user needs. Assisted team to prepare test plan for teh system. Developed and implemented test cases on teh GUI interfaces to ensure that requirements were met. Environment: Windows, MS Office Suite, MS Visio, Requisite Pro, Agile Methodology Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Performed Business Modeling to understand their current business process and existing application. Involved in analysis of teh technical specifications of teh current system and teh infrastructure needs performed Gap analysis. Participated in Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions by convening project sponsors, end-user representatives, development team members, subject-matter experts, technical personnel, and different stakeholders to communicate their perspectives wif each other, resolve any issues and come to consensus. Identified Use Cases and wrote Use Case Narratives. Worked closely wif teh development team to halp them understand Use Case Narratives. Conducted requirement workshops among all project stakeholders to verify and validate teh business requirements. Handled teh development of business requirement documents (BRD) resulting from JAD sessions. Gatheird Business Requirements from users and used Rational Requisite Pro for documenting teh requirements. Involved in maintaining Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM). Designed and implement custom workflows using Visual Studio and SharePoint Designer using custom built content types to in corporate various business processes. Participated in identifying opportunities and parameters for business process improvements. Used teh guidelines and artifacts of teh Rational Unified Process (RUP) to release multiple iterations of teh deliverable over teh span of teh project lifecycle; propounded early development and base-lining of a robust executable architecture. Assisted QA department to write and execute Test plans and Test Cases. Created End-User Training Manuals as well as documented Release Notes. Environment: UML, MS Office, MS SQL Server, Visual Studio Confidential, Charlotte Business Analyst Responsibilities: Coordinating all aspects of projects such as initiation, planning including budgeting, scheduling, task assignment and tracking, change Management, status reporting and risk management. Facilitated team meetings to coordinate activities for project schedules, presented deliverables to teh management, conducted JAD sessions to elicit requirements. Managed requirements to minimize scope issues. Understand all systems requirements wifin deliverable and provide feedback, collected requirements from customers, users and prioritized them. Involved in walkthroughs and meetings wif development team to discuss related issues. Implemented an integrated RUP solution wif complete line of traceability for all teh artifacts of projects. Involved in teh creation and maintenance of teh Workflow plans and artifacts. Performed gap analysis between current performance and desired performance (me.e. critical customer requirements). Examined, analyzed and modeled Test plans Use Case Model cases & Test procedures based on RUP methodology. Used Rational Rose to visually determine teh proper structure, key elements and optimal design for database Wrote clear, concise detailed system requirements specification (SRS) documents and user documentation in accordance to guidelines and standards of a level where developers can interpret, design and develop teh application wif minimum guidance. Worked closely wif project manager in handling whole project. Environment: UML, Use Case Analysis, MS Visio, MS Office. Confidential, Hartford Business Analyst Responsibilities: Performed analysis on existing systems, recommended enhancements, and implemented strategies to streamline current processes using UML. Heavily used Business process modeling to streamline teh existing processes, channels through which customers contact UHC (like phone, web, email, thru doctors, pharmacies, etc). It was noted that same information is being passed on through all teh channels, which required to update some pharmacy, doctor provider related information systems. Similar process modeling was done for claim processing as well, removing teh pain points & bottlenecks in claim mapping, member identification & uniquely identifying that member, claim adjudication, removing duplicate claims, etc. Through these restructuring, system performance was highly improved. Extensive use of BEA Plum tree was done and multiple port lets were designed for above functionality. Implementation was done on BEA Aqua logic. Grouped teh Use Cases and other diagrams into sequence and collaboration Diagrams using Rational Rose based on RUP, UML methods; theirby defining teh business process model. Involved wif all teh phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies throughout teh project life cycle. Aided management in standardizing Web Applications by preparing GUI standards and recommending alternatives for in corporation in a phased, iterative manner. Involved in testing teh conversion of teh application into web application using XML web services. Prepared High Level Logical Data Models and BRDs (Business Requirement Documents) supporting documents containing teh essential business elements, detailed definitions, and descriptions of teh relationships between teh actors to analyze and document business data requirements. Assisted teh PM in setting realistic project expectations and in evaluating teh impact of changes on teh project plans accordingly and conducted project related presentations. Analyzed system performance and initiated process improvement measures for mainframe and Web-based applications. Assisted wif user testing of systems, developing and maintaining quality procedures, and ensuring that appropriate documentation. Conducted User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Environment: RUP, UML, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Project, Visio. 