SUMMARY Highly experienced in managing end - to-end project lifecycles using Waterfall/Scrum/Hybrid methodologies in various industries producing project status reports and project deliverables and following project management principles and guidelines Worked for more than 8+ years in an Agile environment as a Business Analyst, Business Systems Analyst and a Scrum Master Strong team leader with the proven managerial skills to lead and foster multidisciplinary teams and ensure productivity and morale in high-pressure situations through the project life cycle Sound understanding of the data governance principles and disciplines for the business line Competent in handling change request management, effectively implemented change by performing both business Impact analysis and technical impact analysis of the change on the scope of the project Expertise in Requirements Gathering and elicitations, Documentation and Analysis with capability in prototyping documents models and attributes for consistency, completeness and risk minimization Organized Joint Application development (JAD) sessions and Rapid Application Development (RAD) sessions, Interviews, requirement workshops, brainstorming sessions, focus groups, document analysis and other requirement Elicitation sessions with end-user/clients/stake holders and the development group. Proficient in user experience (UX), user interface design (UI) using User Centered Design Approach Collaborated with the Quality Analysis Team in executing the Test Plans, Providing Test Data, Creating Test Cases, issuing test reports upon detection of bugs and extensively involved in GUI (Graphical User Interface) testing, Functionality Testing, Regression testing, unit testing and Smoke Testing. Provided customized dashboards, views of data to entire Sales force, channel teams and executives using Tableau. Expert in successfully demonstrating the user requirements to the team working on the project by employing Unified Modeling Language (UML) and ER-Diagram using MS-Visio & Enterprise Architect. Experience in Data Analysis, Data Mapping, Data Modeling, E-R Diagrams, Normalization. Have strong understanding of Legacy DBMS, Relational DBMS, Object Oriented DBMS, Multi-Dimensional DBMS. Widespread proficiency in Scrum Reporting, Scrum Ceremonies, User Story Planning, Building and Training Scrum Teams, Eliciting Cross-Functional Requirements and managing Self-Organizing, collaborative teams. Thorough understanding of Business Requirement gathering, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling and database/data warehouse, data governance, data dictionary, data modelling and Extract, Transform and Load (ETL). Have good knowledge of using the SQL Queries to verify the data integrity and data consistency after the completion of ETL process on the data which would be in readable format as per user requirements. Extensive knowledge of Data Warehousing, Databases, Master Data Management, Data Marts, Dimensional modeling (Star schema, Snowflake Schema) and OLAP operations such as Roll-up, Drill-down, Slicing and Dicing Self-motivated, adaptive and able to work in a team or independently in a deadline-driven environment. TECHNICAL SKILLS SDLC Methodologies:  Waterfall, Agile - SCRUM, RUP, Waterfall-Scrum Hybrid, Kanban, SAFE, Kanban Project Management:  Atlassian-JIRA, Rally, Version 1 Testing Tools:  HP QC, HP ALM, Selenium IDE Modeling Tools:  Enterprise Architect, Mockup Screens, Lucid Chart, Balsamic, Wireframes ETL and Reporting Tools:  Informatica Power Center, Tableau, SQL*Loader, SQL Server Data Tools Databases:  Teradata V2R6, Oracle 11g, SQL Server 2000, MS-Access, MySQL 2008 Languages:  HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, PL/SQL, Java, SQL Document Management Tools:  Dot-Net-Nuke (DNN), Confluence, SharePoint, Teamwork Office Tools:  MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Project, MS Visio Business Skills:  Change Management, Conflict management, Impact Analysis, Project Planning, Project Scheduling and Project Budgeting, RFP, RFI, SOW, Reverse Auction, Root-Cause Analysis, GAP Analysis, and SWOT Analysis PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Estero, FL Business Analyst, Data Governance & MDM Responsibilities: Involved in defining the scope of the project for ‘Customer’ and ‘Vehicle’ domains, which involved interaction with cross functional teams Performed the responsibility of serving as a liaison between Business and Functional areas and technology to ensure that data related business requirements for protecting sensitive data are clearly defined, communicated and well understood and considered as part of operational prioritization and planning Responsible for assisting the process of Data Governance like defining, monitoring, creating, and implementing standards. Collaborated with the Business Users from various supporting systems like Legal, Marketing, Revenue Management, Sales, Franchise, Customer Care, Operations for gathering business requirements Defined roles and responsibilities related to Data Governance and ensured clear accountability for stewardship of the company’s principal information assets. Facilitated many small-team meetings or one-on-one meetings with Business to identify and gain insights on the various terms used pertaining to their domain and organizing them in a Mind map tool Responsible for creating Unified Modelling Language (UML) diagrams like Use Case diagrams, Sequence diagrams, State Transition Diagrams, Process Flow diagrams for ‘Customer’ and ‘Vehicle’ in Lucid chart Responsible for documenting the Data Governance process, Steering Committee findings, assisting in setting up Data Governance Council (DGC), identify Data Stewards, Data Owners, Data Consults, Primary Business Units, Secondary Business Units and identify the roles and responsibilities for the same Worked with a variety of C2C project teams in their Data Classification for Security and Compliance Shouldered the responsibility of a Scribe in the meetings and drafting the ‘Meeting Minutes’ for the ‘Customer’, ‘Location’ and ‘Vehicle’ Steering meetings Facilitated the weekly Scrum calls to monitor the progress of every task and to identify the road blockers and update the team Creating a Hertz Business Language (HBL) glossary for ‘Customer’, ‘Location’ and ‘Vehicle’ terms for DG and was responsible for their approval with the Steering Committee members and creating a webpage for every Business Language term for ‘Customer’ and ‘Vehicle’ and publishing them on the Dot-Net-Nuke (DNN) portal Run data profiles with multiple usage patterns using Informatica data profiler and assist Steering Committees in develop ‘Data Quality’ report cards that replicate the status of Location, Customer & Vehicle data for Data Governance Council meetings Analysis of the Location data requirements with respect to the source (Global Database Directory) required by multiple downstream consuming systems (Digital, Rates, Payments, ResRent, CPQ etc.) and entering the requirements in HP ALM tool in co-ordination with the off-shore support team and get sign-off from the Business. Also, designed Test Cases using HP ALM tool. Working with Data Integration/Migration teams to capture Business rules and perform field by field data mapping for source (MDM) to target ((Digital, Rates, Payments, ResRent, CPQ etc.)) and document in the IN002E/A and IN003E/A mapping documents along with writing SQL query for any Transformation Logic Creating Data Dictionary for all tables in Location & Cross-Reference domains explicitly defining the Datatype, Max/Min length, Mandatory/Optional status, Field description of every attribute Work with the Development team in mapping schema, sample in data weaver in MuleSoft technology & conducting MUnit test cases and work with the Testing team in validating the Test Cases and executing them using Postman tool Environment: & Tools: Agile/Scrum methodology, Microsoft Office Suite (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook, Project, Visio), JIRA, Confluence, Dot-Net-Nuke (DNN), Lucid chart, HP ALM, XMind 2012, Postman Confidential, New York City, NY Sr. Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in defining the scope and business rules of the project, gathered business requirements and translate business requirements into technical specifications which involved interaction with cross functional teams to facilitate gathering of business requirements. Performed the responsibility of serving as a liaison between Business and Functional areas and technology to ensure that data related business requirements for protecting sensitive data are clearly defined, communicated and well understood and considered as part of operational prioritization and planning. Created high level and detailed documents as Business Requirement Document (BRD), Functional Requirement Document (FRD) and System Requirement Specification (SRS). Performed GAP Analysis and Cost-benefit analysis to gain significant knowledge about the enhancement. Identified dependencies by interacting with Subject Matter Experts, Technical Leads and recorded requirements that can be understood and reviewed by both business users and technical team. Extensively involved in creating data flow diagrams, data mapping from Source to stage and Stage to Target mapping documents indicating the source tables, columns, data types, transformations required and business rules to be applied. Implemented CDC (change data capture) for inserting and updating slowly changing dimension (SCD) tables in target for maintaining the history data. Extensively collaborated with data architects to assisted them in data modelling, ETL tool selection, and validate ETL mappings. Ensured Data profiling, captured Data Dictionaries for legacy systems and prepared ETL specification document. Helped the team to extract, transform and load (ETL) the data from source to target database. Created Test cases and Test scripts for Integration Testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Unit Testing at various stages by checking the data manually. Performed Data Analysis and Data validation by writing SQL queries and visual analysis using Tableau Performed daily data queries using SQL and prepared reports on a weekly, monthly and a quarterly basis Involved in the Incident Management and Problem Management processes for root cause analysis, resolution and reporting and catered to successful migration of the database. Assisted the product owner to prioritize the product backlog using Moscow and Kano techniques. Safeguarded team from over and under commitment, contributed in managing backlog, prioritized the resolution of bugs as evidenced by the on-time delivery. Environment: and Tools: Java, HTTPS, XML, Scrum, Rally, Tableau, SQL, Informatica IDQ, Oracle 11g, Balsamic Confidential, Wilmington, Delaware Sr. Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Participated in the Kickoff meetings to understand product vision and strategy with Business owners, SME’s, stakeholders and team to gain strong understanding of the Key Performance Indicators (KPI)’s, network issues based on various markets specified Framed a detailed agenda and conducted JAD sessions with different stakeholders and development team. Understood and articulated business requirements through user Interviews, Surveys, Document Analysis. Performed Gap Analysis to identify the enhancements and differences between the current system and future system. Prepared Business rules document based on user requirements and Network protocols. Gained knowledge about PCI-DSS compliance and ACH for the transparent system processing. Created Use case and used MS VISIO for UML diagrams such as Use case diagrams, Activity diagram and Sequence diagram for client authentication and business process improvements. Used Balsamiq for design and development of Wireframes and Mockup screens to assist development team. Worked on JIRA for requirement management, writing User stories and assisted PO in the grooming of Product backlog items using vertical slicing, estimation and Prioritizing the Product Backlog. Participated in various Scrum ceremonies, helped PO to review the working demo of Potentially Shippable Product Increment (PSPI) in review meeting based on the Definition of Done and Acceptance Criteria. Wrote SQL queries to perform data analysis as needed to gather business requirements around report delivery. Assisted in Designing Conceptual and Logical Models to capture the entities existing in the system and the relationship between them using E-R Diagrams, keeping in mind the business requirements. Used Talend for ETL Process to Data profiling using built-in connectors and Data mapping of data from different sources to the target data-mart thereby reporting and analyzing events and metrics. Assisted in Creating Data Mapping document for the application after finalizing the attributes and tables withbusiness users, SME’s and Data Architects along with BI reporting team in identifying the required data source to create dashboards for data visualization. Assisted the QA team to develop the test plan and test cases to perform the testing and involved in Automated User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and ensured that the business requirements were being addressed in the test plans in an executable specification form Environment: and Tools: Agile/Scrum Methodology, MS Office Visio, PowerPoint, Word, Excel, Tableau, JIRA 6.2, Oracle SQL, Web Services, SOA, REST, HTML Confidential, Phoenix, AZ Sr. Business Systems Analyst / Sr. Scrum Master Responsibilities: Extensively performed data mapping between the existing systems and the new Salesforce Sales Cloud system and drafted the Data Mapping Document. Involved in parsing and concatenating the text fields, performing date and numeric calculations, executing conditional logics and performing look ups to avoid data duplications. Assisted the team in using the cross-reference primary key value to automate and streamline the process of updating the data fields. Made sure CRUD Operations are performed on multiple data objects of the new systems even though the respective single record of the existing system is being processed. Modified the Business Requirement Document to monitor the network bottleneck and capture the performance results. Involved in identifying the business flow and documenting it, also involved in creating and drafting the detailed diagrams such as use cases, business and data flow diagrams. Assisted the ETL team to plan the process and filter the control tables using Informatica tool. Captured Data dictionaries for legacy systems and responsible to facilitate page layout customization, sales process customization, pick list segmentation and setting the validation rules. As a Scrum Master, I was involved in facilitating the ceremonies such as Sprint Planning Meeting, Daily Scrum Meeting, Sprint Review Meeting, and Sprint Retrospective Meeting. Involved in breaking down the EPICS in to User Stories and drafting them into the Product Backlog Item list by ensuring it meets the INVEST criteria. Facilitated the Sprint Grooming Meeting on and was involved in slicing the larger user stories into smaller user tasks and estimating them using the Planning Poker Identified and resolved the team impediments so that the team focuses on the final Potential Shippable Product Increment and delivers it in the given respective sprint. Analyzed the Iteration Burn Down Chart, tracked team’s velocity, sprint release progress and prepared the status report. Environment: and Tools:Java, JIRA, Tableau, XML, DTD, WSDL, XML Spy, Informatica, SOAP UI, HTML 5, CSS3, Informatica, MS Office Suite 2010 (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, Project, Visio) Confidential, Seattle, WA Sr. Business Systems Analyst / Product Owner Responsibilities: As a Business Systems Analyst, worked with SME’s, stakeholders and team to gain strong understanding of the Key Performance Indicators (KPI)’s, alarms, network issues based on various markets specified. Created a mapping document that maps all the metrics, formulas, values to the source that assisted the ETL team along with BI reporting team in identifying the required data source to create dashboards for data visualization. Conducted requirement gathering sessions and elicited requirements using various techniques such as personal interviews, meetings, JAD sessions, survey/questionnaire with all the involved Managers, Vendors and other stakeholders. Effectively communicated business requirements by creating Mock-Up Screens and Wireframes using UI components such as Radio Buttons, Drop-Down Lists, Check Boxes, Data-Entry Fields. Documented user stories using JIRA encompassing all the business rules, functional requirements and process design. As a Product Owner, created and maintained the product backlog, also prioritized it as per business value. Assisted with elaboration of Epics, Themes & Features into user stories that are granular enough to be achieved in a single sprint. Participated in Scrum ceremonies like Backlog Grooming meeting, Sprint Planning meeting, Daily Scrum meeting and Sprint review meeting. Used JIRA to record and maintain artifacts such as Product backlogs, Sprint backlogs, User stories, and Issue tracking using JQL. Inspected the product progress at the end of every Sprint and declared the product as Done or not done. Protected team from over commitment and prioritized the resolution of defects/bugs as evidenced by the on-time delivery. Communicated the status to external stakeholders and endured their involvement through the product development life cycle. Collaborated with other Product Owners to align the goals of the product and resolve dependencies. Worked with the Scrum Master and Team to manage stakeholder’s expectations and create effective release plans. Supported the QA testing and ensured that the business requirements were being addressed in the test plans. Created a mapping document that maps all the fields in the HTML pages to XML tags which are in turn mapped with the tables and column names in the database and involved in performing client-side validation on the new system. Prepared UML diagrams like Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams using MS Visio to analyze the structure of the architectural design, behavior and the interaction within the system design. Used Tableau to generate the custom reports and dashboards that allows end users to conduct rich analytics. Planned the UAT testing, test plans, test cases and worked with the business users for UAT test execution. Assisted in organizing and coordinating deployment meetings, and making sure applications are ready to be moved from development environment to production environment. Environment: and Tools: Scrum Methodology, MS Office Visio, PowerPoint, Word, Excel, Tableau, JIRA 6.2, Oracle SQL, Altova XML Spy, SOA, HTML, XML Confidential Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Used MS Visio to document the existing business processes to help understand and analyze the requirements. Facilitated and conducted requirement workshops & documented complete and meaningful use cases and creating Use Case diagrams and data flow diagrams Maintained Functional Specifications Document (FSD) and System Requirements Specification (SRS). Facilitated the System Requirement Document verification and input documents analysis to avoid discrepancies at the earliest stage of Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Created mock-ups for the UI and assisted UX team in developing the UI with good aesthetics. Worked with the product team to identify the display patterns and live updates to the website. Monitored the offline and online store match while business logic, policies and rules remain the same. Help train the in-house employees in updating the products and offerings on the go. Assisted the in bridging the gap between UI, middleware and Database teams to better coordinate. Prepared RTM (Requirement Traceability Matrix) and mapped with test cases to identify if all the requirements are covered. Experienced in SQL queries to extract data from various databases for data analysis Advanced proficiency of Excel functions to generate spreadsheets functionality like pivot tables and V-lookup Performed ‘Quality Assurance’ by creating unit test cases for the SHIPS application and tested shipments by manually planning the shipments for orders (Unit & System Testing) Performed in User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and responsible for Functional Testing in coordination with the Testing team Environment: and Tools: Waterfall, Eclipse IDE, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, XML, Web Sphere, DB2, HP QC, MS VISIO, MS Project, My SQL workbench. Confidential Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted elicitation techniques such as JAD session, Interviews and Brainstorming in order to gather the user and business requirements and worked closely with Project Manager to draft the Project Plan by identifying various project milestones, budget allocation, work break down structure and resource allocation. Worked closely with Subject Matter Experts (SME’s) and other stakeholders to draft the high-level documents such as Business Requirement Document (BRD) and Functional Specification Document (FSD) and other scope management documents and was responsible to perform and document the GAP Analysis using the outcome of the AS-IS Analysis, TO-BE analysis and Proxy Benchmarking. Extensively created and documented various Use Cases, Business Flows, Prototypes and Work Flow Diagrams as per the requirement of the business. Managed the frequent requirement churn from business user and responsible to document it and send them to the Change Approval Board (CAB) for sign off. Drafted the Test Plan and prepared various test cases and test scenarios with respect to the in-scope and out-of-scope project items and involved in various kinds of testing activities such as Unit Testing, Smoke Testing, System Integration Testing and Regression Testing. Drafted the test case scenarios for the production system which are later executed as a part of User Acceptance Testing (UAT) to check the functioning of the end software in the live environment. Used HP ALM software tool for application development and testing which included activities such as functional testing, performance testing, developer management and defect management. Worked with the non-co-located team who are placed around the geographical locations for the project. Environment: and Tools: SQL, HP Quality Center 9.2, MS Office Suite 2010 (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook, Project, Visio), SharePoint 2010, Water-Fall. 