SUMMARY 9 yrs of Business Analyst and certified scrum master experience specializing in different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in retail, Healthcare Insurance and Finance domains. Scrum Master Certified with 4 Years of working experience as a Scrum Master. Adept at crafting clear and precise Business Requirements Documents (BRD), Functional Requirements Specifications (FRS), System Requirements Specification (SRS), Nonfunctional Requirements with proven ability to leverage technology and deliver impactful solution Expertise in conducting Requirement discovery and Analysis workshop with cross functional groups for creating and analysis of Business Problems, Business Case, Process - Models and Business data models. Proficient in conducting highly productive Joint Application development (JAD) sessions and Joint Requirement Planning sessions (JRP) with End Users, Subject Matter Experts, Developers, and Quality Assurance (QA) teams. Expertise in writing Technical Specs,Test Plansand Test Cases. Prepared Functional Specification Documents,AS-ISandTO-BEworkflows. Performed GAP analysis documenting variances and suggesting steps to overcome the gaps, besides Feasibility studies and ROI. Designed Prototype, Mock-up screen, and Wireframes using MS Visio and rational rose and Balsamiq mock-up tools while developing GUI applications Proven experience clearly expressingbusinessneeds ("what" & "how") in terms of user stories and acceptance criteria Experience in creating and maintaining the Requirements definition documents that include System Requirements,Businessrequirements and Functional requirements- High Level Design & Application Interface Agreements. Strong knowledge in SQL Server by writing and executing the queries to check if the software reacts as required with database. Experienced in training users and developing training manuals. Experienced in interfacing with stakeholders and senior management with excellentcommunication and interpersonal skills. Strong functional expertise in the Healthcare Payer Area - Membership claims, benefits, eligibility check, ICD10, HIPAA, CMS HCPCS Exposure to Health Care Industry standards like HIPAA / PHI. Working Knowledge of Claims Processing, Insurance Workflow, HMP, PPO, HIPAA, COBRA Well versed in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP) and Waterfall methodologies. Extensive experience in Content Management System while managing projects and team. As a Scrum Master Certified actively participated in all phases of scrum ceremonies like sprint grooming, planning, daily scrum, sprint demo and retrospective meetings. Aided in creating, updating and maintaining Product Backlog, Sprint Backlog, Reports & Metrics to update required stakeholders Knowledge on DITA and working experience of XML tool Broad Knowledge in reviewingTest Procedures, Test scenario,definingTest cases, Test Dataand also analyzing bugs, interacting with team members in fixing errors andUser Acceptance Testing (UAT) and also assisted inpost - Production support. Strong team building, conflict management, time management and escalation protocol skills. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Tools: ( Agile Project management and Business Modelling tools ): JIRA, Confluence, MS Visio, Balsamiq Mockup, Rational Rose, MS Front Page, Publisher, Dream viewer, DITA Databases: Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, MS Access Technologies: Java/J2EE, C, C++, VB, VC++. ERP: SAP - ABAP, FICO. Web/Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, Glassfish, ActiveMQ IDE Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio. Automation: RPA - UI Path Web Technologies: JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML, JSP, XML, HTML5 Protocols: HTTP, SOAP, REST, XML Web Browser: Chrome, IE, FireFox Operating Systems: Windows, MAC, LINUX. Utilities: MS Office ( MS Word, MS Power Point, MS Excel, MS Outlook), Adobe Acrobat Professional PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Jersey City, NJ Business Analyst / Scrum Master Responsibilities: Designed and developed project document templates based on SDLC Methodology. Created epics and user stories (Businessrequirements) and developed use cases frombusinessteam inputs Performed the required analysis, impact analysis and documented the requirements Documented the current business flow for utilization management (UM), Case Management (CM) and disease management(DM) Created and managed Business requirement document, Use case for the upgraded functionality Analyzed system performance and initiated process improvements measures for web based application Followed a systematic approach to elicited, organizing and documenting requirement of the system Reviewed the joint requirement document with cross functional team to analyze the high level requirements. Been a part of architecture and modelling team and have used SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) Planned and documented procedures for data processing and prepared data flow diagram for applications Analyzed and translated Business requirements into system specifications utilizing UML methodology Conducted weekly meeting for deciding the policies and procedures to be followed while upgrading the system Interacted with the line of business managers and co ordinated the transition into security database to ensure business compliance with HIPPA Provided technical assistance for processing and documentation of repositories. Supported maintenance procedures and updating of processes Developer UML use case using Rational Rose and developed detailed project plan with emphasis on deliverables Recommended changes for system design, methods, procedures, policies and workflows affecting Medicare/Medicaid claims processing in compliance with government compliant processes like HIPAA(4010A1)/ EDI formats and accredited standards like ANSI Rational Unified Process (RUP) was used to implement iterative SDLC. Generated test cases in Claims Analyzer Editor Professional to ensure unification with CPT-4 and ICD-9 codes. Working knowledge in ICD 9/ANSI Health codes/HL7/ADT in the claims environment for inpatients and outpatients; reviewed the implementation of the changes made in the systems as per the formats and compliance for EDI usage. Researched EDI claims and claims adjustments data to determine root causes of data errors. Worked closely with the Enterprise Data Warehouse team andBusinessIntelligence Architecture team to understand repository objects that support thebusinessrequirement and process. Also responsible for managing communication and expectations of system vendor, the former parent company IT andbusinessdepartments, and Allied Worlds variousbusinessunits (underwriting, claims, reinsurance, actuary, accounting, and IT). Created Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and ER Diagrams. Analyzed the test results from QA teams using Performance Studio Analysis to create various scenarios. Developed strategies with Quality Assurance group to implement Test Cases in Test manager for User Acceptance Testing. Introduced and implemented Agile/ Scrum methodology through "Servant Leadership", coordinating with product owners in breaking down products into features based on stakeholder's priorities and needs. Organized and facilitated scrum ceremonies like project planning, daily stand -up meetings, reviews, retrospectives, sprint, release planning, demos. Continuously learned Agile/Scrum techniques and shared findings with the team. Carefully Analyzed the requirements with Product owner and the Team and documented it in Product backlog. Conducted regular meetings, facilitated communications, ensured coordination, cooperation among team members, maintained task board and produced daily burndown charts. Tracked Burn Downs/Burn Ups throughout the sprint and release. Helped coach teams on the rules of Scrum, guided teams to self-organization, continuous improvement, and cross-functionality. Works to remove all impediments and obstructions to the team’s progress. Environment: JIRA, MS Visio, Java, Ration Rose, confluence, UAT, SQL, Java, Agile methodology. Agile-SCRUM, HIPAA, EDI, MS Office Suite(Word, Excel, PowerPoint) Confidential - NYC, NY Business Analyst / Scrum Master Responsibilities: Documented and analyzed thebusinessprocess for receiving and processing customer sales based on "Opportunity to Order" and coversbusiness-to-business(B2B) andbusiness-to-consumer (B2C) sales. Made sure that the implemented (POS) point of sale system aligns with the objective of the company. Analyzed and interpreted trends in customer perception, preferences, and behaviors across the e-Commerce/website channel through full shopping cart life cycle and conversion funnels using Google Analytics. Creation ofbusinessand functional requirement documents and use cases supporting them with wireframes and other visual documentation as required. Worked with swim lane diagram and helping design team to see visual element used in process flow diagrams, or flowcharts, that visually distinguish job sharing and other responsibilities forbusinessprocess. Rebuild customer review system and integrate the payment methods to improve customers' experience by shorten the payment process. Involved in development and testing of POS Point of sale systems and applications for Payment Card Industry (PCI) Compliance initiative. Developed task flows and wireframes for an upgrade to a system used by underwriters to manage excess policies. Used Invasion in enhancing the user experience; worked closely with the technical and programming team to prepare Screen Mock ups, User Interface designs using wireframe prototype for this Ecommerce mobile/web redesign. Identified As-is and To-be process maps as part of Gap Analysis for new functionality requirements, and thereafter prioritized them in order to align them with the project roadmap. Conducted JAD sessions with supply chain management and development team to brain storm Point of Sale (POS) and Inventory and Order Management System (IOMS). Developed process flows and procedures for purchasing and forecasting functions. Collaborated with the inventory manager in Forecasting and Replenishment process. Worked with B2B ecommerce with advance online selling, merchandizing, personalization and targeting capabilities. Decompose high level concepts and requests into Epics and User Stories that are consumed by agile teams across multiple parts of organization that directly lead to on-time deployments through agile release planning efforts. Prepared and documented Sprint Backlogs to identify and monitor the activities performed in the time boxes. Developed digital strategy plans for B2B clients following the Digital Analytics skills. Wrote copy for the digital team site and encouraged user adoption of the site. Participated in the testing of B2B and B2C websites, including creating test plan and test cases, executing test cases(including regression and ad-hoc testing), and defect management. Create and review test plans and test case for UAT sessions. As well as conducting UAT sessions. Organized and facilitated project planning, daily stand -up meetings, reviews, retrospectives, sprint, release planning, demos. Provided analytical support and recommendations on stocking strategies and inventory placement. Analyzed and managed Supply Chain reports, dashboards and performance metrics. Carefully Analyzed the requirements with Product owner and the Team and documented it in Product backlog. Removed impediments that obstruct a team's pursuit of its sprint goals while serving as a Scrum Master Participated in Daily Standup Scrum meetings and worked with the team in resolving issues that could potentially cause delays in the sprint completion. Served as a Scrum master and conducted sprint planning, review and retrospective meeting. Conducted regular meetings, facilitated communications, ensured coordination, cooperation among team members, maintained task board and produced daily burndown charts. Collaborated with Product Owners to write up and prioritize customer centric documents like User Stories for Product Backlogs. Created Burn-down Charts to monitor the completion of work within the time-boxes. Accountable for creating, maintaining and ensuring User stories to have coverage onbusinessvalues, story points and acceptance criteria. Environment: JIRA, Java, SQL, Balsmiq mockup, Confluence, MS Visio, Agile methodology, Agile Scrum, UAT, MS Office. Confidential - Philadelphia, PA Business Analyst / Scrum Master Responsibilities: Responsible for managing project scope and milestones; creating roadmap, task plan, timelines, budget estimates, coordinating resources, risks, dependencies by coordinating with sponsors, leadership, partners Standardizing IT project management practices through streamlined, effective project governance methodology to deliver highly valued product. Introduced and implemented Agile/ Scrum methodology through "Servant Leadership", coordinating with product owners in breaking down products into features based on stakeholder's priorities and needs. Analyzingbusinessneeds to create various reports by determining key data parameters, report execution, data mapping, data gaps, data validation from legacy. Clearly expressed Product Backlog items transparency, ordering items to best achieve goals and missions, optimizing value of work for development team. Work with product management to create and maintain solution roadmap Assist other team members, scrum development team, and enterprise architecture in developing solution delivery best practices Be the strong liaison between Product Management and development to ensure a transparent and productive workflow environment Work with teams to continuously improve product ownership and other agile processes Perform risk management to minimize project risks Provide sprint goal and tactical objectives to scrum team, and provide quick JIT decisions to system level questions and defect triage. Work with program management to track schedule against the roadmap, and escalate risks and issues Leading sprint sessions to keep a track on status of user stories development, ensuring definition of done is met for delivery of increments of potentially releasable functionality Perform "as-is" and "to be" analysis and write technical specifications for development. Wrote use cases, test plans and user acceptance tests. Created technical troubleshooting documents used by help desk. Facilitating and driving stand-ups, showcase, retrospectives for continuous growth and removing impediments by employing transparency, inspection and adaptation Leveraging resources to improve capacity for project work; handling change management by strategizing techniques to execute or stop the changes based on their benefits Preparing status reports in JIRA and sending to stakeholders, conducting weekly project progress meeting with projects stakeholders and addressing any project related queries, project estimation document Guiding team in creating product and sprint backlogs, and project artifacts including job aid, training material, SOP, SOW (statement of work), SLA (service level agreement), transition plan, requirement inventories. Reported project progress to stakeholders, sponsors, andbusinesspartners and answered questions around any issues or concerns Drove a culture of urgency, on-time, on-budget and in-scope project delivery across multiplebusiness areas and teams for achieving quality product development Serves the Engineering Team in its efforts to deliver value and meet expectations of stakeholders by conducting daily scrum, planning the sprints, demonstrating the sprints, and scheduling process improvement meetings. Provides guidance on the team; helps them along the process of self-governance so they can realize the impact of Agile Scrum frameworks. Evaluates the Scrum Maturity of the team; coaches the team to achieve higher levels of maturity and at a pace that is sustainable for the organization. Works to remove all impediments and obstructions to the team’s progress. Endeavors to build a safe environment and promote a productive culture for work. Environment: JIRA, Java, SQL, Balsmiq mockup, Confluence, MS Visio, Agile methodology, Agile Scrum, UAT, MS Office. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Create epics and user stories (Businessrequirements) and develop use cases frombusinessteam inputs. The Supply Chain scope includes the entire supply chain from production order to shipping & delivery and order management. Support for a major effort to improve the Warehouse Management System (WMS) capabilities of Supply Chain. Support for an inventory management value assessment to improve financial performance and the customer experience by reducing working capitals and supply chain costs, and improving on shelf availability. Used agile methodology with 4-week sprint cycle. Participated in daily scrum meetings to update status from QA standpoint Develop test plan and test cases for all phases of testing. Conduct system test, integration test and end to end testing using manual and automation tools. Used data driven test automation framework to automate regression tests across all browsers Performed data validation testing using SQL queries to validate data. Perform testing for mobile applications to support in Mac and Android operating system Co-ordinate User acceptance testing (UAT) performed by thebusinessusers Conduct triage meeting with the development andbusinessteams during the test execution phase. Manage offshore and onsite resources, schedule tasks and provide status updates to the management. Proposed run book creation to thebusinessteam to assist new team members in master requirements. Environment: Windows, Microsoft Office, MS Visio, Rational Rose, UAT, SQL, JIRA Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Analyzed and evaluated the taxonomy business, provided system modification and enhancements with detailed scope, timeline and estimates. Collaborated with business leads and subject matter experts to identify and establish requirements. Preparation of Business Requirements Document (BRD) and Software Requirements Specification (SRS) to make the designers and developers understand requirements. Ensured that requirements incorporated methods for editing and debugging of extraction rules. Ensured that the integrity of records being filed was not lost during the migration of Operational tiers. Validated that the requirements were ISO 9001:2000 Quality Management System Design compliant. Supported all testing phases, prepared and validated RTM (Requirements to Traceability Matrix) before delivery. Also supported test efforts to verify and validate that the hierarchy of variability dependencies was well-defined and did not result in unexpected or unknown behavior. Included pictorial representations at various points in the BR document to warrant clarity of the requirement objectives. Environment: Windows, Microsoft Office, MS Excel, MS Project, Rational Rose, MS Visio, UAT, SQL. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Understandbusinessrequirements from user interviews to convert requirements into technical specifications. Conducted joint requirements planning sessions with stakeholders (fixed incomebusinessheads) and SME's (Information Technology, Risk and Operations) to gather requirements for FRD (Functional Requirements Document) Used Rational Unified Process as the development methodology to plan project time-line and other project deliverables based on different phases in the project Used SQL queries for data validation, involved in UAT, executing test cases, evaluating test results and preparing test summary reports Proactive in responding to client inquiries and resolved discrepancies. Identified, prioritized, tested and proved essentialbusinessfunctions to assure compliance with vendor and internal auditing Responsible for the completion of projects within specified time and budget dealing with financials, project work flow, change management and dealing with outside vendor relationships Organized meetings with the development and QA teams to elicit use cases and document them Created UML diagrams- Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and ER Diagrams in MS Visio. Story Creating, detailingbusinessrequirement according to customers, and using Agile/Scrum mythology Documented the Traceability Matrix for tracing the Test Cases and requirements related to them. Generated Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams such as Activity, State Transition, Sequence Diagrams and Workflow Diagram to demonstrate critical processes Maintained Balance Sheet of the Project and prepared General Ledger of individual resources Excellent experience in design and development of Data warehousing solutions and generation of OLAP reports Environment: Windows XP, MS Visio, Rational Rose, SQL, UML, MS Word, MS Excel. 