SUMMARY Seven years of experience working as a Business Analyst in Healthcare, Insurance and Banking Industry. Worked extensively in different methodologies like Agile, Waterfall, RUP (Rational Unified Process), and RAD (Rapid Application Development). Proficient in soliciting client requirements through interviews, workshops, existing system documentation and organizing JAD sessions. Trace and inform business requirement changes through the lifecycle of the project using Rational Requisite Pro and Rational ClearQuest while maintaining customer needs and maintained a Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) to keep the stakeholders informed about the progress of the project. Worked extensively in Agile environment creating user stories, sprint lifecycles documents, and essential business use cases. Extensive experience in capturing requirements for large scaled projects using Joint Application Development (JAD), requirements workshops, SME surveys, process analysis etc. Analyzed and synthesized results from JAD and other requirements processes and transformed those into Business Requirement Document (BRD), Functional Requirement Specifications Document (FRD) and Use Case Narratives. Developed new and maintained existing JIRA projects, service desks, workflows, screens, and custom fields. Moreover, assisted with the creation, maintenance, and management of JIRA issues including epics, stories, and tasks. Experienced in data warehouses and data marts for business intelligence reporting along with developing and documenting process flows for business processes. Extensive knowledge using Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams (use case, activity, sequence) using Rational Rose and MS Visio. Knowledgeable in Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act (HIPAA) standards, Electronic Data Interchange (EDI), HL7 and ICD - 9 to ICD-10 coding. Exposure to Software Testing / Quality Assurance includes user acceptance test (UAT) and implementation, preparing unit test cases and user test cases and performing integration / systems testing, regression testing, A/B testing. Excellent communication skills, interpersonal skills, interacting with team members, leadership qualities, mentoring, ability to work independently. Quick learner, self-starter, can learn and adapt to new atmospheres and technologies with confidence and ease. TECHNICAL SKILLS Standards & Methodologies:  SDLC, Waterfall, Rational Unified Process (RUP), Agile (SCRUM) Operating Systems:  Windows (XP, 7, 8, 10), and Mac Business Modeling Tools:  Microsoft Visio, Balsamiq, Rational Rose Office Tools:  Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint) Databases:  MySQL, SQL and Oracle 11g Project Management Tools:  Microsoft Project, Microsoft SharePoint, Rational Requisite Pro Defect Tracking Tools:  Jira, Rational ClearQuest, HP ALM/Quality Center Application/Webservers:  Apache 2.0.52, WebLogic 8.16 Content Management:  Microsoft SharePoint Testing Tools:  LoadRunner, Test Director, QTP 9.2 & Bugzilla Reporting Tools:  IBM Cognos, Tableau, Microsoft BI, Crystal Reports PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Richmond, VA Senior Business & Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Lead multiple project teams through all phases of the SDLC using technologies including Data Warehousing, WebSphere and Cognos. Performed data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data. Lead fit/gap sessions mapping requirements to standardCurambased application suite features and functions. Compiled and delivered comprehensive Business Requirement Document (BRD). Involved in validation of HIPAA for 837, 270/271, 276/277,835, 834 EDI transactions. Extensively interacted with the stakeholders and the IT Department in finalizing the requirements according to the CMS Compliances/Regulations and HIPAA Regulations. The HIPAA component efforts included mapping and gap analysis of legacy claims formats, CMS 1500 and UB92 to 837P and 837I. Expertise in development and implementation of Applications usingCuramframework based on Model Driven Architecture (MDA) Involve into onCuramDocumentation Center for underlyingbusinessProcess Flows, Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD). Understanding of health insurance products (Medicare, Medicaid, Claims, Adjudication, HIPAA regulations, Underwriting, EDI etc.) Performed enterprise-wide TFS Code Scans to identify and analyze impacts to IT and Business Systems. Identify business rules for data migration and Perform data administration through data models and metadata. Analyzed complex business problems and processes within BRD and translated into Functional Requirement Document (FRD), application use cases and data flow diagrams. Gathered and validated requirements, resulting in detailed business rules, functional requirements and process design. Used HP Quality Center to write test cases to cover requirements assigned to a release. Involved in the review of requirements specification with functional manager and technical specialists of the application. Worked on analysis of common APIs for IBMCuramAgenda Player and dynamically load agenda pages based on admin configuration. Extensive Analysis of HIPAA rules to in corporate in the Development of Utility application which is not HIPAA compliant. Responsible for physical/logical data modeling; metadata documentation; user documentation; and production specifications. Creation of the data mart from existing operational data store and other sources. Performed backend testing using SQL queries and analyzed the server performance on UNIX. Confidential - Columbus, OH Senior Business Analyst Responsibilities: Worked extensively on writing the business requirements and making the user requirement documentation. Acted as a liaison between stakeholders: system users, clients and managers, who have a business problem to gather requirements. Conducted walkthroughs of the Business Requirement Document with the business users and the IT project managers. Facilitated meetings, interviews and JAD sessions with stakeholders to collect business requirements. Used Microsoft Visio to make use case models and business object model depicting whole business workflows in these diagrams. Broad domain knowledge in website development for property and casualty insurance including auto, home, and life insurance. Developed claims processing applications for life, health, property and casualty insurance. Enact change and continuous improvement increasing the productivity of scrum teams by 16% and the quality of deliverables by 22%. Maintained and kept track of stakeholder's requests for enhancements and changes usingRational Clear Quest and used MicrosoftTeam Foundation Server TFSto manage the team's software development lifecycle. Analyzed and created business intelligence (BI) reports in bothSSRSandMicro Strategyaccording to business requirements. Involved in analysis and profiling of source data, creating prototypes and sample reports to help with requirements and design (SSRS). Worked with IBM Case Manager and IBM Data Cap for Enterprise Content Management to enhance and streamline the claim process. Worked with IBM FileNet for Enterprise Content Management, to save the customer’s data electronically at the central repository. Worked on claims data and extracted data from various sources such as flat files, Oracle and Mainframes. Worked with data investigation, discovery and mapping tools to scan every single data record from many sources. Performeddata analysisanddata profilingusing complexSQLon various sources systems including Oracle and Teradata. Implemented software quality assurance development policies, test procedures and testing methodologies, assisted in writing test plans according to business specifications and design documents. Developed and implemented test cases on the GUI interfaces to ensure that requirements were met. Implementation of system enhancements and conversions which included developing detailed documentation for training and testing. Confidential - Hartford, CT Senior Business Analyst Responsibilities: Worked as a Business & Systems Analyst in agile methodology. Defined tasks associated with the user stories, test cases using Atlassian JIRA, and linked test cases with the user stories. Conducted face to face meetings, webinars and JAD sessions to gain process & modeling understanding. Elicited information from stakeholders and convert into requirement & solution. Translated complex business requirements into tangible functional, non-functional and data requirements through collaborative work with both business and technical subject matter experts. Performed data analysis to assess current compliance stand, identify gaps and provide solutions to overcome them. Maintained knowledge of Healthcare and South Medicaid rules and regulations pertaining to theconfiguration and evaluating the impact of proposed changes in rules and regulations. Worked with data investigation, discovery and mapping tools to scan every single data record from many sources. Converted system requirements into use cases and entered information into team foundation server (TFS). Reviewed artifacts (code, design documents, test cases) created by consultants and employees. Worked with the SharePoint for managing the different team aspects from all the environments. Developed XML mapping specifications and map to the various EDI specifications as in 5010 and e10 transactions. Worked on XML files and validated the XML files. Implemented the new Pharmacy Benefit Manager (PBM) determining the new solutions for the complex problems over geographies. Created stories for front end web application with web services and APIs for third party secured integration. Handled Claims / Account Coding Data Entry, Spreadsheets, Worksheets, Excel, Microsoft Outlook and automated reports in excel via macro daily for the accruals. Involved in generating test plans, test cases and test specifications as per Business requirements. Managed the availability of all the applications via content management applications to support the business value. Confidential - Bloomington, IL Business Analyst Responsibilities: Interacted with the SME’s to gather information about the health care provider enrollment, billing and health care claims processing and checked if they are processed correctly or not. Conducted meetings/interviews with stakeholders to collect business requirements, analyzed the root cause of the problems and developed use cases using Microsoft Visio. Prepared storyboards and business workflow processes and models that cover "How" business process models are prepared. HIPAA-EDI project involved the validation and testing of the various HIPAA transactions in HL7/EDI X12 formats to simplify the way business was conducted with group customers and members. Worked on Confidential Auto Insurance projects and involved in Quote management, Claims Management, Insurance Discounts, Road side assistance, Payment module and Agent portals. Worked on the project P&C Dev and Maintenance related to Property and Casualty insurance for Confidential Insurance Company. Worked on SQL Server as part of policy / claim management to handle claims data including lab claim data analysis and CMS claims data analysis for the Confidential projects. Exposure to Reinsurance domain working with Assurant Policies, worked on two methods of reinsurance - Facultative Reinsurance & Treaty Reinsurance. Worked with Facets software for maintaining data about the enrollment, billing and health care claims management and to store, send, receive HIPPA transactions and facilitate the administration of HIPAA privacy rights. Worked on Confidential pharmacy business reports which connect the Pharmacy Portal Database to the Pharmacy Network Database. Worked on RTLS - Real Time Locating System used to automatically identify and track the location tracking automobiles through an assembly line or finding medical equipment in a hospital. Worked on Compliance,Underwriting& Actuarial Analysis to design optimal insurance policies, retirement plans and pension plans and to analyze investment risks. Worked closely with the ETL Data Warehouse and Business Intelligence teams while developing data marts, data models and while reporting and data mapping & validation and wrote SQL queries, prepared dashboards and performed data analysis. Tested bug fixes/Enhancements using production data in Abend-AID/File-AID/Xpediter and logging the bugs into State farms in house bug tracking tool. Confidential - Downers Grove, IL Business Analyst Responsibilities: Adopted process based on agile methodology; partnered with directors of business organization to identify gaps leading to IT infrastructure improvements. Managed requirements from system users and preparation of business requirement documents which provided appropriate scope of work for technical team to develop prototype and overall system. Conducted workshops to understand, define, refine, review the business requirements with the business users and other stakeholders. Prepared user stories and prioritized the user stories in value-complexity quadrant. Prepared product back log, epic stories, decomposing epic and define acceptance criteria, process flows and develop prototypes. Get sign offs from business, prepared and demo sprint review, facilitated retrospective meeting on monthly basis and pull out action items for team improvement. Created UML based diagrams using Microsoft Visio for Use Cases and Activity Diagrams, for better understanding of the layout of the new process. Gathered requirements and participated in database design and development as well as report design and development, testing plan co-development and quality assurance. Exposure to Loan origination and underwriting, Loan Servicing for the Confidential customers. Worked on a module called Fraud Prevention related to unauthorized use of credit card transaction to secure transaction system. Optimized advertising campaigns to increase clicks and ROI for customers by editing campaign elements such as ad copy, keywords and geographic targeting. Extracted data from SQL server into temporary tables to cleanup and standardize column entries for re-importing into new SQL data structures there by improving performance and efficiency. Participated in conference calls and daily stand up meetings with offshore and onshore team. Prepared custom reports and performed SQL query, data analysis and verification. Worked on HP Business Manager Software for Issue Tracking, Bug Tracking and Project Management. Confidential  Business Analyst Responsibilities: Managed project scope, milestones, risks and user acceptance tests with internal and external stakeholders. Followed Citi’s software development lifecycle process, documentation standards and best practices to produce deliverables. Gathered requirements by conducting meetings and brainstorming sessions with users & SME and document them using Requisite Pro. Worked with other members of the project team to analyze findings, develop conclusions and recommendations and create client presentations that deliver a linear evidence-based story on the topics in focus. Facilitated JAD sessions involving the management, development and user for clarifying requirements and better communication. Primarily involved in preparing Company Intelligence reports, Industry reports and key account newsletters through secondary research. Analyzed business needs, create and develop new functionality to meet real time data integration that facilitated decision. Performed CRUD functions in SQL to manipulate data sets and create visualizations/reports through APEX to communicate results. Wrote solution requirements in transitioning system from Microsoft SQL Server to Oracle Application Express (APEX). Created Data Driven Tests using Test Cases and Test Script to validate the scenario with positive and negative test data. Tested the new system by writing use cases to verify functionality and scalability of the new systems. Publish functional requirements, screen prototypes on portal for access by all project participants. Created screen designs in Microsoft Visio for each step of system including all what if scenarios. Knowledge transition to the offshore team on details about the system and participate in deliverable reviews and presenting weekly status reporting to client manager.