SUMMARY 8 years of IT industry experience with as sr Business Analyst with experience in domains Insurance, banking. Excellent Analytical skills to understand the business process and Functionality, Requirements and to translate them to system requirement specifications. Developing functional specifications for business process refinement and automation, data modeling, system Architecture, conducting feasibility studies, scope, process flow and quality assurance, methodologies, mainly Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), OOAD and UML. Trained the team for incorporating scrum using scrum management tools - JIRA/TFS. Extensive experience in Investment Banking, Front Office Risk and Controls,Trade Surveillance for Wealth Management, Commodities, Treasury, Capital Markets etc.), Public Appearance, Consumer Lending, Credit Risk, Retail/Commercial/Online Banking (Online Statement Transfers/Consumer Lending), Collections (Servicing systems), E Commerce, Revenue and Taxation, Financial Services, Trading/ Trader Mandate Library and Controls, Portfolio Management, Equilend and Cash Management and their different Line(s) of Business (LOB)/ Business Users (BU). Developed Tableau visualizations and dashboards using Tableau Desktop from new ANG system. Excellent understanding of Financial Instruments and regulatory / compliance reporting. Currently working as a Sr. Business Analyst/SME on OTC Derivatives in Capital Markets Domain. Excellent knowledge of industry standard methodologies like Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile (SCRUM), Iterative Software Development Life Cycle Process as per Rational Unified Process (RUP), CMM (Capability Maturity Models) and Rational Tools used during various phases of RUP, PMO (Project Management Office). Conducted Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions and interviewed Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), asking detailed functionality aspects of business process and carefully updating the information to the requirements in an easily understandable format. Facilitate Scrum or agile process: Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, Sprint Review, Sprint Retrospective and Backlog refinement. Worked with Data Warehouse team for data availability for complex reports Created action filters, parameters and calculated sets for preparing dashboards and worksheets in Tableau. Superior performance in every major functional area of Supply Chain Management, logistics management, including procurement, supply, maintenance, transportation, deployment, and distribution. Conducted GAP Analysis, SWOT Analysis, Cost Benefit Analysis, Risk Analysis, and Impact Analysis (Change Management System), modeling Businesses Processes, and prepared Training Manuals and Knowledge Transfer manuals (Technical Writing). Understood Business Objectives/problems and conducted feasibility/cost benefit analysis and came out with alternative solutions. Responsible for daily treasury activities including processing wire transfers, payroll, daily cash applications, recording transactions in Salesforce and liquidity management. Expertise in creating Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams as well as Data Flow Diagrams, Entity Relationship Diagrams, and Flow Charts using MS Visio and Rational Rose. Ran Scrum IPv6 work meetings and weekly Sprint IPv6 project progress meetings. Tracing requirements throughout the development process and verifying adherence using the Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM). Used data analysis techniques to validate business rules and identify low quality missing data in existing Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) and analyzed data models using Use-case diagrams and descriptions, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams. Worked closely with the Change Control Review Board (CCRB) to ensure that the Change Requests requested by the LOB is documented/tracked/implemented correctly. Expertise in Analysis of Problem Severity, Defect tracking and reporting system. Experience developing web-based applications, wireframes, mockups etc. Experience in gathering business requirements for integration points including downstream/upstream interface requirements. Excellent oral and written communication skills, interpersonal skills, and analytical skills. Proficient in creating Risk Analysis documents, Risk Management Plan, User Requirement Specification, Functional Requirement Specification and Business Process Flows. Undertook certifications of ‘Code of Business Conduct & Ethics’, ‘Community Reinvestment Act Awareness’,’ Fair and Responsible Lending Awareness’, ‘Security and Risk Management’. Created Open Items/Risk/Issue Log to track the issues and followed up with various teams to get them closed. TECHNICAL SKILLS OPERATING SYSTEM: Windows Server, Windows, UNIX TESTING TOOLS: HPQC, Load Runner, Quick Test pro, Quality Care FRONT - END TOOLS: Adobe Photoshop, MS Excel, MS Office, MS Project LANGUAGES: C, C+ +, HTML, XML, UML REQUIREMENT MANAGEMENT: Rational Requisite Pro, Caliber RM MODELING TOOLS: MS Visio, Rational Rose, Caliber RDM PROJECT MANAGEMENT TOOLS: MS Project, Share Point 2010, JIRA, Primavera BUG TRACKING TOOLS: Rational Clear Quest, Rational Clear Case METHODOLOGIES (SDLC): Scrum, Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), Waterfall Model DATABASE: Oracle, MS SQL Server, MS Access PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - West Palm Beach, FL  Business Analyst Responsibilities: Successfully managed Project Backlogs, release scheduling, project duration estimation and forecasting. Ensured engineering practices like TDD (Test Driven Development), Crucible code reviews, Continuous Integration and Pair Programming. Facilitated Scrum related meetings, Sprint planning, Daily Scrum, Pre-Grooming, Grooming, Sprint Review, and Retrospective sessions. Conducted user training with delivery managers about the new tableau dashboard. Formulated and executed process flows and product backlog. Trained a development team of 5, 3 developers and 2 QA members to utilize Agile Methodology with Scrum. Coached teams towards continuously improving agile process and metrics. Successfully involved in transitioning the Organizational Structure and Business Processes from traditional Waterfall to Agile. Crated data models using STAR Schema for Data Warehouse Reporting Developed Tableau dashboards by using Oracle and Excel as data sources. Provided technical support for Sprint Cycles and testing with Rally tool. Extensively used Rally for maintaining User Story Hierarchy, Backlog Grooming, Updating Tasks, Connecting Rally with JIRA and Quality Centre, Planning Iterations and Releases Prepared and lead bi-weekly "Iteration Planning Meetings" (IPMs) as part of the agile development process, and lead software demos to client. Built and coach 3-4 scrum team for scaled scrum - Safe - Scaled Agile Framework Developed and implementation of Agile, Scrum, Safe Lean best practices and processes. Scrum key activities - Backlog grooming, story jam, story mapping, iteration planning, release planning, daily standup, retrospectives, and iteration demos.Conducted Scrum meetings and updated Burn down chart with the progress of each SPRINT. Utilized Tableau server to publish and share the reports with the business users. Coached Product Owners in creation and maintenance of Product Backlog. Updated Agile tracking systems to provide transparency on product, team progress and sprint backlogs Used TFS to maintain the backlog, create and monitor sprints, create reports such as the sprint burn down, maintain capacity, and receive updates as the team writes history into the work items. Wrote new PL/SQL packages and shell scripts, add new procedures and functions, and modify existing procedures based on business requirements Strong understanding of Data warehouse concepts, ETL, Star Schema, Snowflake, data modeling experience using Normalization, Business Process Analysis, physical and logical data modeling. Coached Product owner in prioritizing, developing strategy, and reporting out progress of all sprints within the transformation project. Worked with other Agile Coaches to design a plan to implement Safe Agile Framework while retaining and integrating existing lean practices. Highly motivated team player with excellent Interpersonal and Customer Relational Skills, Proven Communication, Organizational, Analytical, Presentation Skills, and Leadership Qualities. Developed and maintenance of application and infrastructure roadmap. Used JIRA for workflows and field customizations. Created activity diagrams and data flow diagrams. Tested the ETL Informatica mappings and other ETL Processes (Data Warehouse Testing) Created visual information radiators (ex: visibility board, Kanban board, etc.) Facilitate Scrum or agile process: Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, Sprint Review, Sprint Retrospective and Backlog refinement. Calculated team velocity with XY Charts and updated Burn down chart to keep progress visible. Used various metrics and made team dashboards to visualize sprint using different filters and reports. Integrated illustrations into the system for easy access using XML. Involved in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL programming and created new packages and procedures and modified and tuned existing procedure and queries using TOAD. Implemented Scrum with TFS to track the progress of project and involved in creating Product Backlogs, EPICs and User Stories. Took initiative to drive Community of Practices in Leadership, Developer and QA communities. Established sprint velocity and KANBAN queue limits. Oversee all agile project management activities and process management across all project teams. Determined the team capacity (velocity) from historical data. Created Work Break down structure (user stories) and corresponding activities (tasks). Worked on Sprint burn downs and KANBAN metrics for future staff augmentation and delivery forecasts. Developed standard regression for production and non-production environments Released and post release quality metrics Drive Agile maturity and Innovation approaches by coaching teams on the best of Scrum and XP practices, ATDD, pair programming, automated testing, and continuous integration Trained offshore resources to deliver substantial input towards overall software testing. Assisted waterfall team to adopt agile testing process. Trained the team for incorporating scrum using scrum management tools-JIRA/TFS. Implemented different testing methodologies as a QA lead; Bench testing, Unit testing, White/Black box testing, Regression, TDD (Agile), Functional testing, Smoke testing, Load testing etc. Identified and proposed resolution of project and communication improvements within the organization Actively participating in release planning with PO and scrum team for smooth release of planned user story. Continuously Assessing the Scrum Maturity of the team and coaching them to higher levels of maturity. Communicate status, risks and release definitions to the management team. Environment: ASP.Net, SQL, Excel, Oracle, Windows, Kanban, Rational Rose, Rational Requisite Pro, UML, Jenkins, MS Project, MS Visio, UAT, Scrum Methodology, Blue Print, SharePoint 2007 Rational Clear Case. Confidential, New York, NY Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Gathered requirements by conducting meetings with key stakeholders, end users and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs). Extensively interacted with the stakeholders and the IT Department in finalizing the requirements according to the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Compliances/Regulations and HIPAA Regulations. Facilitated JAD sessions involving the management, development and user teams for clarifying requirements and facilitating better communication. Working within a growing knowledge of ANSI 834 (Benefit Enrollment), 820 (Premium Payment), EDI, Privacy, and Security. Interacted with the business users in knowing the business rules and gathered the reporting requirements to design the business objects reports. Performed Gap Analysis of the processes to identify and validate requirements. Involved in business requirements (BRD/High Level Document (HLD) / Low Level Document (LLD)), Functional Requirement Document (FRD), Project Specifications Document (PSD). Prepared Unified Modelling Language (UML) diagrams, Business Process and Data Process Model using MS Visio. Organized requirements into high level Use Cases and low level Use Case Specifications. Created wireframes and developed a prototype of the GUI using Axure and demonstrated it to the stakeholders and business users and noted feedback from them. Coordinated with project stakeholders to track the progress of the project, updated status and lead the review meeting to ensure that schedules and deliverables are met. Assisted product owner on working with USER stories to create Product Backlog. Facilitated daily scrum meetings to review the status of sprint backlogs and sprint review meetings to discuss the accomplishments and issues that the Scrum Development team faced. Facilitated the process by resolving the conflicts in the team and avoiding the impediments. Tracked defects in HP ALM and worked with QA team to resolve defects. Assisted in the UAT and in the preparation of the Test Plan, Test cases with the testing team as well as ensuring testability, reliability, usability, maintainability and performance of the application. Worked on JIRA for continuous update with project schedules, quality, issues/defects and managing resources. Environment: Agile - Scrum, SQL Server 2012, MS Office (Word, PowerPoint, Excel), MS Visio, SharePoint, Spitfire, HP ALM/QC, Azure, JIRA Confidential - Houston, TX Business Analyst Responsibilities: Business Analyst for ETL projects that extract data from various source systems for Medical Claims, Pharmacy Claims, Revenue, Membership, Capitation, etc. Analyzed data, identified the business rules for transformation of data, processing data and loading into data warehouse, multiple data marts. Complete ownership of Medical Claims, Revenue subject areas. Gap analysis of data requirements between source and target system Participated in testing software by conducting User Acceptance Testing (UAT) Responsible for budget, resource allocation, tracking and reporting to upper management. Presented weekly dashboards over Opportunity Management and Asset Management to business. Requirements were captured using Rational Requisite Pro Wrote and published a monthly Software Asset Management (SAM) Newsletter, in an effort to gain buy-in to, and socialize the benefits of, a SAM program. Gathered, developed, coordinated, and maintained SOA system requirements for various projects and/or systems from initial phase to final implementation, assuring requirements meet standard. Adept at conducting User Interviews and Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions for eliciting Business Requirements, System Specifications and Functional Requirements. Identification of business rules for data transformation and bridging the gaps. Key liaison between business unit and development groups in a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) environment. Educating business users about the data arrangement, new report structures in target system. Ran Scrum IPv6 work meetings and weekly Sprint IPv6 project progress meetings. Elicited and documented requirements for Web Content Management System that increased efficiency for the business users decreasing time from average of 2 weeks to 5 minutes. Assisted in testing associated Sprint Stories for Acceptance Signoff, using Archer RSA (Configuration Management System). Environment: Rational, RUP, MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Project, HL7, Visio, SharePoint, Epic, ADR, Oracle, SQL, IBM Data stage, ETL, EDI, Requisite Pro, Mercury Test Director, Salesforce, Mercury Quality Center. Confidential, Indianapolis, IN Business Analyst Responsibilities: Facilitated and worked as a servant leader between different members to develop the application. Applied a Lean Software Development Concept among the team members by optimizing efficiency and minimizing waste in the development of software to achieve the project goals. Facilitated the breaking-down of epics into user stories (INVEST format) and handled requirements churn and inspired the team members to self-organize for the quality of the application. Used Chart Board in daily standup to make sure development team members are on time and meeting sprint goals. Promoted cross function within the team to ensure task completion and delivery of sprint commitment. Removed impediments and ensured sprint facilitation by maintaining the cadence. Coordinated with the multiple teams on different systems, and protected the team from internal and external distractions. Handled multiple SCRUM team and conducted SCRUM of SCRUM and KANBAN. Instructed and modeled core Agile principles of collaboration, prioritization, team accountability and visibility; ensured consistent application of scrum methodologies across the enterprise. Focused on building high-performing teams, organizational structure optimization and communication alignment to rise development velocity and quality toward business-driven goals. Created a traceable, inspect able and adaptable matrix (TIA Matrix) to track the Just in time status. Guided the team to remove impediments by finding the right personnel to remove the impediment. Facilitated sprint planning, sprints, daily stand-up meetings, demos, reviews, retrospectives, grooming, coordinating and other activities as needed for multiple scrum teams. Built a strong relationship with team members and safe environment to solve the problems without fear of blame or being judged, and established a positive culture among the team members. Applied MoSCoW and KANO (Satisfying; basic needs, performance needs, excitement needs) prioritization techniques to help the prioritization of the product backlog. Assisted in using Safe, such as time-boxing, continuous integration, continuous delivery, code/design reviews, transparency, accountability, empowerment and velocity improvement. Assisted the Product Owner in writing Acceptance Criteria for User Stories, Definition of Done (DOD) for PSPIS (Potentially Shippable Product Increments). Motivated the team to work towards continuous improvement for PSPIS in each sprint. Assisted the Product Owner regarding the grooming and maintained the product backlog. Facilitated workshops in identifying, analyzing and documenting business requirements, and assisted the business analysts in preparing the BRD and FRD. Worked with the RTE to drive the definition and refinement of the program and team backlogs. Maintained metrics to provide visibility for stakeholders on team-level progress and quality. Coached the teams on best agile practices to deliver the business value by providing the quality software product on time, and tracked Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for the Scrum Team. Facilitated the sprint review and sprint retrospective meetings and encouraged team participation to increase productivity and efficiency of the team and process. Formulated new strategies during retrospective meetings to inculcate improvements into upcoming sprints and avoid impediments. Facilitated development of project plans related to schedule, budget, scope and resources, and monitored project execution to deliver incremental business value. Gained appreciation in Sprint Review meetings for maintaining committed deadlines. Applied estimation techniques such as planning poker and t-shirt sizing to assist the team in allocating story points to user stories while helping them breakdown the user stories into tasks. Managed issues and conflicts of goals between the development teams and the product owner. Facilitated the daily stand up, backlog grooming, sprint planning, sprint review, sprint retrospective, sprint ceremonies, meeting and other related participatory activities as required by the team. Mentored on Various Agile Practices, such as TDD (Test Driven Development), CI-CD (Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery), and ATDD (Acceptance Test Driven Development). Improved team velocity by incorporating capacity planning into sprint planning sessions. Regularly interacted with business users and SMEs to facilitate requirements churns. Supported in testing related activities to ensure the delivery of defect free PSPIs. Environment: Agile/Scrum, XP, Safe, MS Office (Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook, Visio, Project), JIRA, UML, SQL, Confluence and SharePoint 2013, Kanban, Lean, Kano 