SUMMARY 6 years of professional experience working in various domains like Health Care, Retail and Finance as a Sr. Business Analyst and Scrum Master. Extensive working of all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), and have experience in traditional waterfall, spiral and agile methodologies such as Extreme Programming (XP), Scrum, Kanban, ASAP and Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe 4.0) and Waterfall - scrum hybrid. Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile-Scrum, and RUP. Highly skilled in conducting GAP Analysis, SWOT Analysis, Feasibility Analysis, Cause & effect Analysis, Risk Analysis and Impact Analysis. Expertise in analyzing the Business Requirements and documenting them into artifacts like Business Requirement Document (BRD), Functional Specification Document (FSD), Functional Requirement Document (FRD) and System Requirement specification (SRS) and Requirements Traceability Matrix. Managed the requirements and prioritized user stories by proficient use of management tools like TFS, Confidential ALM and used JIRA for defect management. Experienced in working as a Certified Scrum Master in an agile environment. Possess thorough knowledge in designing Prototypes, Mock-up screens, and Wireframes using MS Visio. Experience writing Request for Information, Request for Offer (RFO) and Statement of Work (SOW) documents. Extensive experience in writing User Stories by breaking down Epics into small stories with the help of Product owner and Cross-functional development team. Acted as a Servant leader to keep the team together all the time and to ensure a successful sprint. Guided the team in becoming self-organized to improve productivity. Certified Scrum Master, with proven ability to be able to mentor and coach team members in Agile Methodology. Adept at supervising Manual Testing, Automation testing, Black-box Testing, Sandbox testing, Functionality Testing, System Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing, Security Testing, Load/Stress Testing and Performance Testing along with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and helped in designing and developing test plans and test scripts. TECHNICAL SKILLS Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile-Scrum, RUP. Requirements Management: JIRA, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Confidential ALM-QC. MS Office Tools: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, Project, SharePoint. Business Modeling tools: MS Visio, Rational Rose. Testing Tools:  Confidential Quality Center, JIRA, Load Runner. Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows XP/ vista/7/8. Healthcare: HIPAA compliance, Medicare, Medicaid, MMIS, HL7, ICD-10. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Cincinnati, OH Business Systems Analyst/Scrum Master Responsibilities: Interfaced with SMEs to prepare BR documents for ongoing projects. Prioritized business and systems problems; analyzed legislation and conducted impact analysis. Prepared business process models. Proactively create, implement, maintain, and evolve detailed reporting and analysis of data produced by the Retail Branch Administration department including but not limited to helpdesk requests, new account opening exceptions, documentation issues, etc.; Review accuracy of information provided and responds to requests from management to retail processes. Create, implement and evolve new and/or exiting account opening and tracking systems. Responsible for reporting and communication (both internal and external) necessary to meet business objectives and organizing JAD or Brainstorming sessions with business users and SME. Research performance at major retailers using the retailer’s information/portal to resolve sales and replenishment related issues or changes Developed use cases, Use case diagrams, activity diagrams and screen mock-ups. Conducted risk engineering to derive and execute action plans on time. Worked as QA and developed test plan and test cases and test scenarios. Used Test director as defect tracking tool to log defects. Used Toad (Quest Software) to help with white box testing and data integrity as well as running SQL queries. Assisting with the business case, requirements elicitation, fit Gap Analysis and preparation of Functional design documents Tracked defects using JIRA and assisted QA teams to resolve defects. Coordinating with multiple stakeholders to understand expectation from team and helping team to achieve the same in various phases of SDLC methodologies in Waterfall, Agile, Scrum environments. Enforced Kanban principles as a Scrum master that resulted in reduction of Cycle time by 20% thus increasing team's throughput. Facilitated team and cross-team Retrospectives to build good working relationships among the 2 software developer teams. Assisted the teams with making appropriate commitments through story selection, sizing and task with maintaining team standards. Environment: Waterfall-Scrum Hybrid, Rally, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Power Point, HTML5, CSS3, Tableau, Devops, Informatica, Balsamiq, MS-Visio, MS- Project, HPQC, Confidential ALM Google Analytics Big Data (Hadoop, Map Reduce, HBase, Sqoop). Confidential, Bloomington, IL Business Analyst/Scrum Master Responsibilities: Involved throughout the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Waterfall. Performed SWOT and GAP Analysis to discover new functionality requirements, prioritized them based on actual business needs, prepared Functional Requirements and Use Case Specification document. Experience in GAP Analysis of the AS-IS and TO-BE processes to identify and validate the requirements. Conferred with Business Users to elicit requirements and worked with design & development team on solution design. Interacted with users to verify User Requirements, manage Change Control, and update existing documentation. Createduse cases, process flow diagrams, and designed solutions using theFunctional Specification Document (FSD). Facilitated JAD sessions and conducted peer review meetings. Defined requirements for client side validation server side validation.Identified and documented all business rules for Middle Tier, communicated the rules to technical team to provide scope and requirement clarification on a low-level. Worked on GUI development: created screen-mockups to review the requirements and provide feedback on the screen design. Kept the application extremely simple by encapsulating all the complexity of the system in coarse grained services. Created and maintained Sprint burn down chart and release/product burn down charts. Performed duties of Agile coach by educating the team on prioritization techniques and estimation techniques. Worked on challenges like team issues where the team is supposed to be self-organizing, but the cultural background of the team members made hard for everyone to share responsibility without being authoritative. Demonstrated understanding and experience with SQL queries. Co-ordinate with QA team to test and validate the reporting system and its data. Suggested effective implementation of the applications, which are being developed. Collaborated with the Business Users to organize and conduct UAT. Environment: Waterfall-Scrum Hybrid, JIRA, Confluence, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint, HTML5, CSS3, Tableau, Devops, Google analytics Informatica MDM, Confidential ALM MS-Visio, MS- Project, HPQC Confidential, Boise, ID Business Analyst Responsibilities: Involved throughout the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Waterfall. Performed SWOT and GAP Analysis to discover new functionality requirements, prioritized them based on actual business needs, prepared Functional Requirements and Use Case Specification document. Experience in GAP Analysis of the AS-IS and TO-BE processes to identify and validate the requirements. Createduse cases, process flow diagrams, and designed solutions using theFunctional Specification Document (FSD). Facilitate JAD sessions and conducted peer review meetings. Worked on GUI development: created screen-mockups to review the requirements and provide feedback on the screen design. Facilitating SAFe processes and execution, resolving and escalating impediments, managing team risks, helping assure value delivery and driving continuous improvement. Being a lead member of agile PMO. Have helped other teams to adopt scrum. Sprint analysis and burnup reports are getting followed by another project. Engaged the team members for the project with required skill set and dealt with the hidden impediments. Detailed documentation of issues and risks to improve risk mitigation, issue resolution and reduce turnaround time of impediments and blockers. Used Clear Case to keep different versions of the documents and Clear Quest to report bugs or defect. Assisted in designing test plans, test scenarios and test cases for integration, regression and user acceptance testing (UAT) to improve overall quality of the Application. Environment: Waterfall, rational requisite Pro, rational rose, Confidential QC, MS project, MS Visio, MSSQL server, SharePoint, MS office. Confidential, Fairfax, VA Business Analyst Responsibilities: Determined user/business/functional requirements. Conducted Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions with stakeholders throughout Unified Process to resolve open issues. Coordinated work plans between project manager and client using MS Project. Created scope and business process models. Identified actors and developed Use cases, use case diagrams, activity diagrams and state chart diagrams. Utilized RUP to configure and develop process, standards, and procedures. Performed GAP and Risk analysis of existing system and evaluated benefits of new system. Validated technical designs created by IT developers against functional specifications. Worked with QA team to design test plan and test cases for User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Developed Test scenarios and developed test cases for test execution. Identified software bugs and used Mantis bug tracker tool for bugs reporting and communicating between developers and test team members. Participated in QA for test case review and performed user acceptance testing. Created documentation such as User Manuals, Release notes for training and Help Desk teams. Environment: waterfall, Windows, Visio, MS Project, MS Office Suite, HTML, CSS, XML 