SUMMARY: Scrum Certified Master/ IT Project Manager with 9+ years of experience in leading Development teams, Project Planning, and Client/Product Management seeking an opportunity at a growing technology firm. Extensive hands - on experience in SDLC methodologies like Waterfall and Agile (Scrum and Kanban) experience of working for transformation project i.e. Waterfall to Agile (Scrum). Accomplished servant-leader capable of delivering large-scale software and Web development projects on time & on budget by effectively collaborating, facilitating, leading and coaching multiple Scrum teams. Expert at driving the adoption and enforcement of Scrum rules, removing impediments and fostering self-management. Capable of bringing overwhelming enthusiasm and awareness to projects, applying expert judgment to the removal of impediments, keeping teams focused and delivering success in rapidly evolving and dynamic environments. Coaching team members on agile principles and providing general guidance on the methodology. Engaging with other Scrum Masters to increase the effectiveness of the application of Scrum in the organization. Effective in handling multiple stakeholders, cross-functional teams, geographically distributed and co-located teams. An effective communicator, committed team player with commitment and a strong work ethic. Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team. Collaborative work ethics and refined leadership skills with ability to motivate teams and thereby increase Productivity. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Tools: JIRA, Confluence, Rally, Visual Studio Team Foundation Server (VSTS & TFS), MSBI (Microsoft Business intelligence) MS Visio, Visual Studio, MS Project 2010/2013, MS Project Server 2013, SQL server (enterprise) data tools, MS SharePoint, BPMN (Business Process Model And Notation), GitHub enterprise, HP ALM and Meeting Facilitation Tools (Google groups, GoTo Meeting, WebEx, MS Lync), MS Office Suite (Word, Outlook, Excel, PowerPoint) Languages & Web Technologies: C, C++,C#, .NET, ASP.NET, VB.NET, HTML, CSS, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, JSP, VBScript, SOAP UI/REST, JAVA, Shell Programming, JavaScript, Apache, Tomcat, Visual Basic, VB Script, Oracle PL/SQL, Lotus Script, PowerBuilder, UML, IBM WebSphere, Web Services, Adobe Photoshop Functional Skills: Coordination and Facilitation, Project Scheduling, Budget Tracking, Risk Management, Issue Tracking, Conflict Resolution, Documentation, Reporting, Testing, Change and Service Requests PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential - Long Island NY Sr. Scrum Master Responsibilities: Developed and followed agile project management plan (Agile Ceremonies). Facilitated build requirements log (product backlog) with cost estimates and priority. Conducted Grooming meetings, Scrum Daily standup, Product backlog, Sprint Planning, Sprint Review & Sprint Retrospective meetings. Determined the team capacity (velocity) from historical data. Created Work Break down structure (user stories) and corresponding activities (tasks) Improved team velocity by incorporating capacity planning into sprint planning sessions. Monitored the project progress and radiated the information to stake holders. Identified and mitigated team risks and impediments (Blocking Issues, Critical Defects) on daily basis. Coordinated and participated in weekly estimation meetings to provide high-level estimates (Story Points) for backlog items. Monitor key metrics daily and weekly to gauge team progress (metrics tracked are Velocity, Daily burned hours, Committed vs Delivered velocity, Story and task progress status, Impediments & Defects/Bugs Raised per Sprint). Worked with product owners to prioritize and validate User Stories. Helped team complete tasks successfully and on time and resolved obstacles encountered by team members. Worked with Development teams to remove Impediments. Monitor key metrics daily and weekly to gauge team progress. Managed offshore and onshore teams in different geographical locations. Metrics tracked are Velocity, Daily burned hours, Committed vs Delivered velocity, Story and task progress status, Impediments & Defects/Bugs Raised per Sprint. Environment: s: HP Quality Center (ALM), Agile (SAFe) Methodology, MS Visio, MS Visual Studio, MS SharePoint, Version One, MS Excel, MS Word and MS PowerPoint Confidential - Boston, MA Project Manager/ Scrum Master Responsibilities: Managing all project related information like Status Report, Issues and Risks, Assumptions, Change Management, Milestones, QA, and Project Budget using PPM Optics. Working with the Team and the Product Owner to define Team specific norms. Tracking project dependencies outside of the project team's control and escalating issues as necessary Monitoring and controlling the project budget. Improved team velocity by incorporating capacity planning into sprint planning sessions. Scheduled and facilitated Sprint Planning, Daily Stand-Up, managed Kanban story board, Sprint Demo & Sprint Retrospective meetings. Removed impediments and resolved conflicts. Radiated information to ensure transparency. Supported the Product Owner to ensure the backlog has sufficient prioritized user stories at a ready status to stay ahead of the Team. Determined the team capacity (velocity) from historical data. Created Work Break down structure (user stories) and corresponding activities (tasks). Planned, managed and facilitated three Safe Agile Release Train Program Increment (PI) sessions. Facilitated, coached, & guided the teams on the values and practices of Agile and Safe methodologies. Ensured that Agile, Safe principles and processes are properly implemented and adopted. Confidential - Boston, MA Scrum Master Responsibilities: Organized and facilitated sprint planning, daily stand-up meetings, reviews, retrospectives, release planning, demos and other Scrum-related meetings. Tracked and effectively communicated team velocity and sprint/release progress to all affected teams and management Involved in Agile methodology with respect to the successful development of the project. Improved team velocity by incorporating capacity planning into sprint planning sessions. Used Jira tool for Scrum & Kanban, creating burn down, burn up and other artifacts as needed. Updated the team homepage in JIRA Confluence with the recent developments and scrum artifacts to ensure transparency and visibility. Worked on improving the work intake process and quality of software using Kanban techniques, and prepared reports for the stakeholders. Responsible for coaching two teams during the early stage transition from Waterfall to the Scaled Agile Framework (Safe). Worked closely with Product Owners, coordinating product backlog grooming and story estimation. Direct and lead development team from project initiation through delivery of final product. Acted as a Project Manager when necessary. Guided projects to completion on time, within scope, and on budget. Confidential - Salt Lake City, UT Scrum Master/ PM Responsibilities: Conducted Daily standup, Product backlog, Sprint Planning, Sprint Review & Retrospective meetings. Assisted team to remove impediments by having an understanding the control and release processes. Protect development team from outside distractions, impediments or team conflicts, and maintain focus on product backlog and project timeline. Coordinated weekly estimation meetings to provide high-level estimates (Story Points) for backlog items. Worked with the Scrum Team & Product Owner to negotiate the minimum viable product for delivery. Helped team to solve problems rather than provide solutions. Facilitating Scrum of Scrum for offshore Scrum teams in US states and India. Managing the overall performance and delivery of cross-functional. Performed the traditional project management tasks like facilitating the status meetings, updating the status reports, and managing the team on a day to day basis. Managed the Scope and the Change Requests. Tracked and managed the Issues and Risks. Confidential  Scrum Master /.NET Developer Responsibilities: Study high-level design documents and flow charts and interact with Leads, Business analysts and functional managers to clarify issues upon business requirements. Designed and develop the back-end with C# language, Interface framework, Custom Tag libraries and development of Business Tier logic. Building the interfaces that connect the users of an application to its back-end processes and data. Utilizing tools TFS, VSTS, Microsoft Teams and standard Microsoft development tools for source control and team Technical discussions. Involved in writing user stories for every sprint and log work accordingly in JIRA to manage work flow, track issues, maintain and mange existing repository sources. Provide demo sessions to the Product Owners and implement the changes. Identify/Resolve application defects and issues in a timely manner. Participates in daily stand up and team meetings to update the flow of work and address any impediments. Provide individual contribution and tasks coordination with the team to meet the deadlines. Acted as Scrum Master for Product teams with a focus on guiding the teams towards improving the way they work. Assisted team to remove impediments by having an understanding the control and release processes. Assisted with internal and external communication, improved transparency, and radiated information. Continuously learned Agile/Scrum techniques and shared findings with the team. Engaged with other Scrum Masters to increase the effectiveness of the application of Scrum in the organization. Facilitated sprint planning, retrospective and sprint demos