PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY: Versatile management professional with 7+ years of experience working as Business/Systems Analyst and Scrum Master with in - depth knowledge of software development and exhaustive proficiency in Business Process Analysis, Technical Documentation, System Analysis, and Software Validation. Managed highly visible, complex projects with aggressive timelines and delivered cost effective, high performance technology solutions to meet challenging business demands. Excellent Analytical, Interpersonal, Multi-tasking, Problem Solving, Decision Making, presentation Skills and project Management Skills. Experience in liaising with business and technical stakeholders and coordinating with cross functional team to meet the business objective. Proven Success in Business & System Requirements gathering, Business Process flows (As-Is and To-Be), Work breakdown structure (WBS) using MS Project and RACI Matrix. Experience in facilitating JAD Sessions, focus groups, interviews, and brainstorming sessions to facilitate gathering, managing, and documenting of business requirements. Proficient in conducting Risk Analysis, GAP Analysis, SWOT, Cost Benefit, Impact, and ROI Analysis. Expertise in Business Process Modeling & Mapping, and creating UML Diagrams (Use Case Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams) using MS Visio. Closely worked with project manager for project financing and budget management. Expertise in diverse software development practices such as Waterfall, Agile, and Scrum. Managed and implementation of Lean/Six Sigma and Total Quality Management methodologies. Well experienced of SOA Architecture, Internal and External Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI). Extensive experience in creating artifacts like Business Requirements Documents (BRD), Functional Requirement Specifications (FRS), Software Requirement Specifications (SRS). Proficient experience in creating static and dynamic wireframes, and GUI Mock-up Screens. Experience in defining and analyzing services and incorporating them into service oriented processes through extensive uses of Web Services in SOA Environment. Experience working on cloud computing with Azure, and Amazon Web Services (AWS). Worked in various technology frameworks such as XML, HTTP, HTML, Oracle, SQL, SAP, .Net, and Java. Excellent experience working with SOAP Application programming Interface (API) and with writing requirements for API. Working experience in several domains such as Healthcare, E-commerce, Insurance, Pharmaceutical, Clinical Trials, and Banking. Proficient experience in working with Sales Force Commerce Cloud - Demandware. Involvement in Data Dimensional Modelling, Data Extraction Transformation Loading (ETL) and Business Intelligence Reporting using Tableau and Informatica Power Center. Experience in creating, customizing, troubleshooting and issue management of data analysis tool such as - Kronos . Experience in working on Relational as well as Dimensional data warehouse. Strong understanding of Software Development Life Cycle, solution architecture and development practices. Understanding and fixing issues in Salesforce.com and created Business Process and implementing workflows in Salesforce. Proficient in developing and validating Test Cases & Test Plans with use of HP ALM & Clear Quest. Experience in creating and modifying Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) and creating User Manual and facilitating User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Excellent communication skills with strong Customer orientation and Client interfacing skills. A self-motivated, innovative and dynamic professional possessing good Technical, Leadership, and proven to be a good Team Leader. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Operating Systems: Windows7/Vista/XP, Mac OS, Unix, Linux. Business Modeling Tools: MS Visio, Balsamiq, Rational Rose, Mockup Screens, Requisite Pro, Clear quest. Project Management Tools: JIRA, Rally, Microsoft Team Foundation Server. Testing Tools: Quick Test Pro, HP Quality Center, HP ALM, Load Runner, Selenium, Test Studio. BI Reporting Tools: Tableau 8.3, Crystal Report, IBM Cognos 10, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Databases: MS SQL server, Oracle, Toad, IBM DB2. Data Warehousing: Data Marts, OLTP, OLAP, Big Query. ETL Tools: Informatica Power Center, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS). Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, AJAX. Documentation Tools: MS Office Suite, MS Share Point. Other Tools: Web X, Altova XMLSpy, VSTS 2012/2013. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, Hartford, CT Business Analyst/IT Scrum Master Responsibilities: Working with internal stakeholders such as product delivery management, as well as customers, to clearly define and document their requirements for Enterprise Integration project. Creating static wireframes for various APIs tabs to integrate to the tools. Creating and maintaining the business user guide explaining the business value and description for every features. Creating mapping documents and work sheets using excel sheets. Assisting QA lead to create the automation JAVA Scripts in the RQM. Conducting and participating the meetings with the business stakeholders by end of every sprint. Working as a primary interface between the Business and Technology in order to accomplish business requirements and deliver functional solutions. Translating business requirements into user stories, and document on project management tool. Acting as a Confident Demeanor for process improvement and evangelist scrum development team to scrum practices and values. Participating in EDF (Enterprise Development Framework) work group sessions. Facilitating Daily Standups to track the progress of the team and resolve impediments Conducting scrum ceremonies such as Sprint Planning Meeting, Sprint Review Meeting, Backlog Refinement Meeting, and Sprint Retrospective Meeting. Managing the project related artifacts, features and user stories on IBM RTC/CA Rally Software. Assisting scrum development team with making appropriate negotiation and commitments through user story selection, sizing and task Definition. Calculating the capacity of the individual team member and the velocity of the team to conduct the sprint. Preparing minutes of meetings and send to attendees. Facilitating KT sessions and demos, and assist team members to work in agile manner. Validating the user stories and tasks status per the Definition of Done and User Acceptance Criteria. Resolving impediments in assistance with Product Owner/Business Analyst for enhancing the velocity of the sprint. Ensuring that the final user documentation effectively conveys the information the client needs. Ensuring the use of best practices and applying the lessons learned from previous projects. Managing program and team dependencies by coordinating with Release Train Engineer and by taking part in scrum of scrums. Environment: IBM RTC, CA Rally, RTM, RQM, MS Visio, MS Teams, XML, JSON, JAVA, MS Outlook, MS Suite 2010, SharePoint, PostMan, SOAP UI. Confidential, Los Angeles, CA Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Gained insight about the structure, business model, and existing healthcare process referring to legacy documents on SharePoint Tool. Correlated the business objective as a part of continuous process improvement using Define, Measure, Analyze and Improve. Worked with QNXT Configuration Team for HIPAA Claims Validation and Verification Process. Prepared the Gap Analysis Document & Feasibility Analysis though extensive use of SharePoint Analytics, various Elicitation techniques like Meetings, Interviews, Group Discussion, Observation, and Brainstorming Sessions with stakeholders and team. Techno-Functional experience withSalesforce.com Sales cloud and Marketing cloudas system administrator and guiding clients on CRM solution for sales, marketing and services teams. Evaluated current QNXT system configuration for Medicare Advantage and Medicaid plans and recommended improvements to increase auto adjudication of claims. Identified associated risks and created Risk Mitigation Document for the project. Participated in various meetings/discussions, with Product Owner, SME and Project Manager, to discuss and consolidate the business requirements. Involved in contract administration as well as review, analysis, and evaluation of budget. Coached and facilitated Lean Six Sigma workshops for processes and processes improvements initiatives. Involved in creating user stories and their Acceptance Criteria to be accepted by stakeholders. Designed Communication plan and Transition plan for Lean Six Sigma implementation. Coordinated with Project Manager to create Work break down structure (WBS), manage schedules, deadlines, resources and the project tasks using MS Project. Developed program and material for team members to increase QNXT knowledge base and configured all authorization and COB templates within QNXT. Participated daily scrum meetings to track the progress of the team and resolve any impediments, scrum review, backlog grooming, and retrospective meetings. Performed data analysis and data mapping on Kronos. Calculated Velocity, framed Burn down chart, re-populated the backlog with unfinished user stories, and guided the stakeholder with the slice of potentially shippable product at the end of every sprint. Developed high level requirement documents Business Requirement Document (BRD). Designed various Use Case diagrams, process flow diagrams, and sequence diagrams using MS Visio. Anticipated and proactively tracked, recorded and removed Impediments. Assisted in validating codes for billing process, which included Diagnostic codes (ICD9/ICD10), Procedure and Taxonomy codes, Location codes, and various modifiers. Performed gap analysis of existing Web Services already used by the Line of Business (LOB) and utilizing those for the main Dashboard. Created business rule engine in XML and reported changes to the team accordingly. Used Service Oriented Architecture for creating different modules of the tightly coupled system and used orchestration of Web Services to integrate various departments. Demonstrated Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) using MS Excel to trace the completeness of requirements and facilitated Triage calls. Executed and assisted in Integration Testing, Cross Browser, and Performance Testing. Reviewed Test Procedures, defined Test Cases, and analyzed bugs, interacted with team members in fixing errors through extensive use of HP ALM & Clear Quest and conducted User Acceptance Testing. Closely involved with creating User Manual system migration strategies, readiness assessment, deployment and requirements and execution of plans. Environment: Agile/Scrum, MS Office Suite, MS Project, MS Visio, SharePoint 2013, Azure, Rally, Kronos, HP ALM, Oracle, IBM Cognos 10, SQL, SQL Server, JAVA, HTML, XML, SOAP. Confidential, Rockville, MD Scrum Master/Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Determined knowledge of HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules for appropriately handling and sharing Patient Health Information. Acted as a Confident Demeanor as well as Agile Coach for process improvement and Evangelist scrum development team to Scrum Practices and Values. Closely worked with the product owner and self-organizing and cross functional team members including Architect, Dev Ops IT, Testers and Quality Analyst. Worked with technical team developing billing system and created design document, and flow charts. Worked on Meaningful Use for maintaining privacy and security of PHI. Conducted Planning Poker Sessions for the product owner and team to effectively estimate various tasks associated with each user stories using Fibonacci Series. Facilitated scrum ceremonies such as Daily Standups to track the progress of the team and resolve impediments and conducted Sprint Planning Meeting, Sprint Review Meeting, Backlog Refinement Meeting, and Sprint Retrospective Meeting. Created Data Mapping Documents and worked with business to write transformation rules. Recommended changes for system design, methods, procedures, policies and workflows affecting Medicare/Medicaid claims processing in compliance with government compliant processes like HIPAA/ EDI formats and standards ANSI. Developed functional specifications for clients' business requirements and CMS regulations. Managed, oversee, and shared all aspects of clinical document files using Share Point. Interfaced with Compliance department to analyze audit findings and help prepare corrective action to our third-party vendor. Working experience with product owner in converting high-level requirements EPICS and Features into User Stories using INVEST technique. Conducted Planning Poker Sessions for the product owner and team to effectively estimate various tasks associated with each user stories using Fibonacci Series. Assisted scrum development team with making appropriate negotiation and commitments through User story selection, Sizing and Task Definition. Responsible for calculating the Capacity of the individual team member and the Velocity of the team to conduct the sprint and Facilitating Coaching Sessions and responsible for analyzing Track Reports. Experience in using Rally to keep a track of user stories and track project progress through burndown and burnup charts and estimated velocity of the sprint. Verified, validated, and routed the ANSI X12 834, 5010Cenrollments, confirmation, cancellation, and termination information from the enrollment systems to the exchanges in the format required by the recipient system. Worked and analyzed the documentation of Medicare Part C and D. Participated in setting up the Definition of Done and User Acceptance Criteria for user stories using Gherkin’s format to be accepted by the product owner. Hands-on experience with Kanban Boards, Story Boards and Maps for analyzing the status of the tasks. Analyze HIPAA EDI transactions in ANSI X12 responses and of 834, 270/271, and 999 for SHOP implementation and looked for defects. Experience in creating and executing Test Plans for functional Tests, QA Tests, Regression Tests, Smoke Tests and UAT using Quick Test Pro. Managed Program and Team Dependencies by coordinating with Release Train Engineer and by facilitating Scrum of Scrum. Environment: Scrum, Rally, MS Office Suite, MS SQL, Quick Test Pro, Tableau. Confidential, Seattle, WA Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Acted as a liaison between Sales, Marketing departments and IT management teams in troubleshooting of database infrastructure throughout the SDLC phases. Assisted product owner and scrum team in converting Epics and Features into user stories. Responsible for analyzing business requirements and designing & developing Technical Requirements using HP Application Lifecycle Management. Conducted Gap Analysis, Data Mapping, and Interface Analysis to identify relevant data and tables for constructing data warehouse. Developed and maintained product backlog and facilitated grooming sessions prior to sprint planning. Exhaustively used SQL Queries for Data Analysis, system verification and validation. Created and managed paginated reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Embraced agile principles to support iterative user experience design, involving UX research and UX design at all stages of product development. Developed User Stories and its Acceptance Criteria and collaborated with other team members including Product Owner, Software Engineers and Quality Analysts. Used CA Rally for writing/analyzing project vision, goals, specifications and requirements ensuring that deliverables were delivered on time as scheduled. Proficient experience working with marketing team and provided coaching sessions on Drupal Lightning. Responsible for creating UML Diagrams like Use Case, Activity and data flow diagrams to depict the interaction between the various actors and the system. Created Mockup screens using MS Visio to convey the look and feel of GUI screens for the business end users to developers. Developed and managed custom digital commerce and mobile commerce using e-commerce cloud based Demandware. Acted as SME for guiding my team regarding database and data warehouse management and its development and worked with technical team on BSS/OSS systems. Worked with Architect for developing design solution includes SOAP and REST Web Services. Conducted the Business Requirements Document (BRD) and System Requirements Specification (SRS) reviews and walkthroughs with Team Leads and stakeholders. Developed non-functional requirements and documented them as Business Rules, Quality Attributes and Constraint Documents to provide understanding to team. Interacted with Data Warehouse Developers and System Architect for formulating the Entity Relationship diagram and data flow diagram using ERstudio. Participated in all Scrum ceremonies including daily standups, backlog grooming, product demos, and retrospectives with Product Owner, Scrum team and Master. Extensively involved in Data Extraction, Metadata Creation, Transformation and Loading (ETL) operations from Source to target systems using Informatica Power Center. Held JAD Sessions with the system architects, developers, quality analysts during the entire project to assure that the critical as well as the minute details of the project were discussed and issues were resolved beforehand. Involved in identifying and suggesting the different dimensions required for generating the reports and OLAP cubes to facilitate the multi-dimensional view of the data to generate slicing/dicing, roll-up/drill-down reports. Worked with QA lead in validating Test Plan and Test Scenarios. Performed Smoke Testing, configuration/ compatibility and User Interface Testing. Used HP Quality Center for tracking Defects and tracing functionality performances. Assisted Business User during deployment in formulating User Acceptance Testing (UAT) for customized application and getting confirmation for product Release. Environment: Rally, MS Excel, MS Visio, Clear Quest, SSAS, SSRS, Tableau, DB2, Teradata, Kronos, SSIS, SQL, HP ALM. Confidential  Scrum Master Responsibilities: Assisted product owner in converting Business requirements into User Stories. Facilitated sprint planning, daily standup’s, sprint review and retrospective meetings. Responsible for calculating the capacity of the team and velocity for the sprint. Used JIRA to track the project’s progress to accomplish the US points within a sprint. Facilitated, coached, and guided the organization and teams on values and principles of Agile and Scrum and conducted Collaboration Meetings for the team. Worked on design, development and deployment of Money Transfer System. Experience in managing Task Dependencies and resolving Impediments faced by team. Experience in conducting webinar session with the scrum development team and SME. Responsible for writing MOMs and sending those to the attendees. Facilitated Backlog Grooming meeting for the re-prioritizing or splitting the user stories. Met goal of addressing and resolving issues within a day and track sprint velocity. Played a crucial role in setting up User Acceptance Criteria and Definition of Ready for user stories to be accepted by the business. Environment: Scrum, Jira, MS Excel, MS Word, XML, Windows 2003, Test Director. Confidential  Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Analyzed and optimized the existing business processes using the conceptual modeling methods and documented the business process through DFD (Data Flow Diagram). Coordinated with stakeholders, Scientists, IT, and business teams to design and develop practical operations in lab and business process model. Conducted business requirements workshops for users and stakeholders. Conducted business process Gap Analysis between To-Be design and SAP Standard Business Processes and mapped existing business processes to SAP functionalities. Developed and analyzed metrics for data quality and data management processes. Experience in working with Oracle eBS, Re-engineering, and Value Chain Analysis, Clinical Trials, Supply Chain Planning and Quality Control. Documented user and technical interface design documents to specify data files, control files, trigger files, receiving and sending systems. Ensured the third-party requirements of chain clients using PDX pharmacy system. Closely worked with retail pharmacies for analyzing reimbursement procedures through Pharmacy PDX software system. Worked extensively on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, opportunities, Products, Price books,Contracts, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards. Created business process design and Business Process Diagrams using a Graphical BPA. Manufacturing experience with GMPs, GDPs, and execution of Trace Link. Conducted walkthrough session with business end users, stakeholders, Subject Matter Expert (SME), project Manager to discuss and resolve various issues Extensively worked on Data Analysis of different tests for tablets such as Disintegration, Hardness, Friability and Dimensional analysis. Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for salesforce CRM implementation with Oracle Big machine CRM Salesforce. Maintain all appropriate patient records in PDX software to determine and maintain the ratio of supply or demand. Created Use case diagrams, Activity diagram and Class diagrams using Requisite Pro. Recommended changes for system design, methods, procedures, policies and workflows affecting regulatory submissions in compliance with government compliant in XML. Analyzed Test scripts and Test scenarios for functional testing of new development, reports and issues resolution and created material for users and QA group. Assisted in conducting User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and conducted Sessions for business end for new functionality of application. Environment: MS Access, MS Project, MS Office Suite, Trace Link, MS Visio, XML, IBM Cognos, Requisite Pro. Confidential  Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Met with client groups such as stakeholders, medical SME’s, and Usersto determineuser requirementsand analyzed project’s need to set up the project objectives. Acted as aliaisonbetween Technical Team and the user community and identified the business needs of the users and stakeholders to help determine the technical solution. Elicited and articulatedbusiness requirementsconducting Interviews, Survey and Questionnaire and then converted requirements intotechnical specifications. Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams using UML. Performed Cost-Benefit Analysis and Impact Analysis and handled change requests. InterviewedSMEs across various specialties which included asking detailed questions. Responsible for recording the requirements in a format that can bereviewed and understoodby both business stakeholders and technical team. Actively involved inwalkthroughs and work over meetingswith development team. Involved in draftingtest strategies,test plan,test casesandtest scriptsfor the installation, GUI functionality, Security, Recovery and performance. Engaged with Architects and UI designers and developed UI prototype Validated the design met user requirements by facilitatingUser Acceptance Testing. Environment: MS Office, MS Visio, MS Project, SharePoint 2007, Test Studio. 