SUMMARY Over 16+ years of total IT and extensively working on software development experience spanning from Windows stand alone programs, web pages using ASP.NET MVC, JavaScript frameworks as JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS .NET layers using C#.Net classes from framework 2.o to 4.7 and Core 2.0, including enterprise applications, with team leadership and mentoring experience. Expert in full Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Developer with knowledge and experience programming web based applications using the following technologies: C#, VB .NET, ASP, VB 6.0, SQL, MVC 4, C#, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, SQL Server, AJAX, AngularJS, bootstrap, Reporting Services and Crystal Reports. Ability to lead a project and develop software functionality. More than 10 years of experience in applications development and implementation. Analysis of business requirements. Good understanding of project management and software development life cycle using JIRA to administrate projects in mode scrum or khan ban. Strong knowledge of technical specifications, workflow development. Experience using Team City and Octopus to deploy and publish projects automatically. Full Stack Developer with a passion for software development especially with agile practices such as Test - Driven Development, with knowledge of OOP. Develop web pages using MVC and asp .Net, create views, partial views, designed controllers and activities, designed models and worked in the code behind for such apps. Experience in designing web pages with HTML, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 and JQuery, AngularJS in a hand-coded environment. Experience in developing Web and Client/Server Applications based on Microsoft .NET Technologies implementing N-Tier Architecture. Extensive backend and front end development experience working with .Net Framework  4.7.2/4.5/4.0/3.5 , Visual Studio.NET  2015/2013/2008/2012/2013/2015/2017.  Create web services with WCF and traditional REST API. Database management, coding, tuning and maintaining triggers, stored procedures, functions, indexes, cursors and jobs (SQL server … Experience working with Language Integrated Query (LINQ) especially LINQ to objects and LINQ to SQL. Experience in database coding, tuning and maintaining riggers, stored procedures and functions for SQL Server. Experience with JIRA, GIT, GitHub, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Microsoft Visual Source Safe (VSS), SVN. Extensive with computer technical support, information backups, software and hardware updates and network management. I'm a learner with desire for personal and professional development as the key motivation driver. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: C, C++, Visual C#, VB.NET  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, ASP.NET, MVC, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, WCF, Web Services, Rest, Angular, BootStrap, Kendo UI, WebAPI, Prime Controls .NETVersions: .Net Core, .Net Framework s (2.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5.x, 4.6.x, 4.7.x ) Software Engineering: UML, Agile Programming Database Development: SQL Server  (2012/2014/2016 ), T-SQL, DTS. XML: XML, XSL, XSLT, XSD, SOAP, WSDL Operating Systems: Windows XP/2000/NT/Vista RAD/IDE: Visual Studio 05/ 2 / /, Visual Basic 6.0 Version Control: Git / GitHub, Visual SourceSafe, Team Foundation Server (TFS), SVN, Clear Case Testing Tools: .Net Unit Test Software Delivery Tools: Team City, Octopus PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Senior .Net Fullstack Developer Responsibilities: Involve in design and development of web forms, C#.NET Classes that incorporates both N-tier architecture and database connectivity. Work on creating Restful Services using Web API and C# to provide services to HTTP requests. Develop user interface (Web Forms) for the modules using ASP.NET server controls, Validation controls, HTML for the front end ordering system, where business logic was implemented using VB.Net. Extensively involved in User Interface designing using Web forms. Create methods using Dapper as micro ORM to simplify data access while ensuring high performance. Used HTML 5, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS3), Bootstrap and Angular to develop and implement a user-friendly UI design for the presentation layer. Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 2. Design, develop and Unit testing of the software with different domains like ASP.NET, C#, Restful API and AWS with TDD methodology. Used Angular 2 HTTP Request to get data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI. Design and develop using framework Angular along with HTML5, CSS3 and Typescript. Design and implement a number of support tools using ASP.NET MVC, Web API, and JavaScript. Developed applications using software development life-cycle (SDLC) followed of Agile/Scrum methodologies Test web API response by sending required parameters through Unit Testing. Consumed different REST and Web API’s to retrieve customers’ information and other application related information. Created complex store procedures and function on SQL Server 2016 Databases. Involved in performance tuning of store procedures. Environment: C#, .Net Core 2, WebAPI, Typescript, HTML5, MVC, JavaScript, JQuery, Json, CSS, SQL Server Management Studio, Web Prime controls, Visual Studio 2017, Angular, Git. Confidential Senior Developer Responsibilities: Developed a high quality software model using N-Tier Architecture with Software development life-cycle (SDLC) followed of Agile methodologies. Design, develop and maintain web-based applications using .NET Framework 4.7 and .NET Core 2.0 Implemented front-end and back-end of applications using C# .Net. Performed Coding/Programming tasks to specifications and in accordance with Development Standards. Environment: C#, .NET 4.0, WCF, Visual Studio 2012, Microsoft Office suite of products. Confidential Senior Developer Responsibilities: Designed and developed an intranet web application using ASP.NET MVC framework. Developed extensive client side scripts and validation functions using CofeeScript. Followed the Scrum Agile Methodology during development of the project. Used backbone for designing the Client application and partial page execution and asynchronous data transfer from web server to the client. Developed user interfaces using Tiles with JSP, HTML and JavaScript. Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), Bootstrap and JavaScript. Worked with ORM tools Entity framework code first for creating objects from database table. Developed several coffee Script functions for popup windows and screen printing options. Interpret the documentation requirements Business to design the Layers of the application using C#.NET. Designed and developed Databases in SQLServer2005 which includes the development of functions, stored procedures and triggers using T-SQL. Involved in fixing the Bugs as per the requirements. Environment: C#.NET, Backbone, ADO.NET, HTML5, Back Bone, CSS3, Coffee Script,, Visual Studio 20012, SQL Server 2005, Bootstrap, JSON, T-SQL, IIS 7.0. Confidential, Fremont Developer Responsibilities: Involved in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Coding, System Tests, Installation and Maintenance. Client-Side validations were used as validation controls and java scripts were coded for functionalities at client-side. Built, tested and deployed scalable, highly available and modular software products. Worked on MVC, ASP.Net and desktop applications Developed Web API for apps and window services creation of subdomains in various websites Created Views and partial views-UI and middle tier for various modules using C#, MVC 3(Razor View Engine), AJAX, JQuery, HTML, CSS. Designed and developed UI using ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, JQuery and AJAX. Implementation of Kendo UI controls for client side listing, sorting, paging Developed Reporting module and dashboards using Kendo UI JQuery Implementation for client side sorting and validations Implemented LINQ for querying, sorting, filtering User Interface design and development using HTML, CSS, .Net Web Implementation of ASP.NET security mechanism Management and validation of defects found in products tested. Functional Experience: Requirements analysis, development of test execution records cases, write technical QA documentation, life cycle of a TER. SCRUM methodologies. Interaction with Client/Third Party Vendors regarding Issues and Status Updating. Deployment support for deployment in DEV, QA, UAT and Production environments. Develop automatic tests. Maintenance to some applications for existing project. Integration of different environments. Peer Review process. Scrum methodologies. Environment: .NET Core 2.0, C#, Web API, OData, Web Forms, MVC, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, LINQ, Light Inject, Auto Mapper, Plain Old CLR Objects (POCO), Open XML Confidential .Net Developer Sr./Technical Leader Responsibilities: Work as a technical lead role, estimate software development cost and schedule, analyze and formulate design specifications and requirements to be assigned to my teammates Closely interacting with client to understand and analyze the Client Requirements. Responsible for solution framework design. Primarily responsible for designing, developing, and maintaining web applications for several clients using ASP.NET (Web Forms and MVC), C#, SQL Server, Entity Framework, WCF, Visual Studio, TFS, SourceSafe, JavaScript/JQuery and CSS. And deployed web applications to production servers. Designing and Developing Code according to the Functionality. Responsible for component design (Exception Handling, DB Helper using Enterprise Library 5.0, Error Logging). Environment: .NET Framework, ASP.Net, jQuery, JavaScript, Enterprise Library, MVC, WCF, TFS, Telerik, MSMQ, Windows Service, Web Service, Oracle, Agile, JUnit. Confidential .Net Developer Sr. Responsibilities: Understanding functionality of different modules. Actively involved in designing and development of User Interface using ASP. Net with, ADO. Net, JavaScript. Providing post deployment support. Writing T-SQL and creating and maintaining stored procedures. Developed application databases and various backend SQL stored procedures. Develop middle layer to consume web service and pass it back to the Ux. Determined and resolved critical issues and bugs in the software in a timely fashion before code release. Environment: C#, ASP .Net, WCF, Entity Framework, JavaScript, CSS, MS SQL Server, SSRS Confidential Consultant Responsibilities: Migrated and improved legacy mainframe application using latest technologies ASP.NET MVC, C#, JQuery, AngularJS, Kendo UI, Bootstrap, Font Awesome which has boosted the User Experience. Designed and developed front end pages and reports using HTML5 and Bootstrap Developed Reporting module and dashboards using Kendo UI Developed the classes using C#, which in corporate Data Repository Pattern for database connectivity Designed and developed Database using SQL Server 2012 Utilized Team Foundation Server (TFS) as source code repository Environment: C#, PL/SQL, SSIS, ASP.Net, AJAX, JQuery, LINQ, SQL 2008, Oracle 9, IIS 7, Mvc 2, Reporting Services, Crystal Reports, Design Patterns, UML, .Net Framework 3.5 - 4.0, Enterprise Library 5, scrum. Confidential Project administrator and Technical Leader Responsibilities: Work as a technical lead role, estimate software development cost and schedule, analyze and formulate design specifications and requirements to be assigned to my teammates Worked with client to develop and document system requirements. Involved in data collection, analysis and design of the application. Wrote classes for data access in ADO.NET and C#. Extensively used Data Grid, Data list and Repeater controls. Used java script to design the program and HTML pages to add interactivity within the project. Designed and developed data driven Web Forms using ASP.NET, HTML. Translated customer requirements to code keeping in line with the functional areas of the client. Understanding functionality of different modules. Performed unit testing and module testing on developed web forms and custom classes. Coding, Testing and Implementation of software as per design. Building data access layer and database interaction through data adapter/reader. UI integration with Data Access Layer. Environment: ASP .Net, ADO .Net, SQL Server, HTML, CSS, JavaScript. Confidential .Net Developer Responsibilities: Design of web sites for credit origination Maintenance and development of WCF services Maintenance and tuning of databases. Performed client side and server side validation using Java script and ASP.NET validation controls, respectively Usage of Cascading Style Sheets, JavaScript, AJAX, and HTML PDF (third party tool) for generating reports in PDF format Development of new modules for existing applications visual basic Back end maintenance and development in C# Development of GUI for ERM for credit origination systems Functional Experience: credit origination, life cycle of credit origination, pattern discern for suspicious activities and money laundry Environment: MS SQL Server 2005, C#, Visual Basic, ASPx, HTML, XML, Java script. WCF 