PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY: 8+ years of IT Business Analysis, data analysis experience with in - depth knowledge of business processes and methodologies with major focus in Banking and E-commerce domain. Have exposure to various stages of Software Development Life Cycle right from Inception to Deployment, creating various requirements documents, handling change requests as well as assisting with testing and deployment. Managed end-to-end project lifecycles using Waterfall/Scrum/SAFe methodologies in different domains delivering status reports, project deliverables along with following project management guidelines. Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, effective communication with end-users to create functional specifications that meet business requirements and define technology solutions. Strong experience with SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) Sound Understanding of Data governance principles and framework Proficient in Data Modeling, Data Mapping, ER Diagrams, UML Diagrams and Use Case diagrams Expertise in eliciting requirements, documentation and analysis for completeness, accuracy and scope adherence. Experienced in Business Analysis, SWOT Analysis, Gap Analysis, Risk Analysis, Disaster Recovery Planning, Testing and Project Planning. Hands on experience with User experience and User interface design Proficient in creating Sequence Diagrams, Collaboration diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Class Diagrams using drawing tools like Microsoft Visio. Experienced in handling Change Management.Good knowledge in control testing methodologies. Involved in publishing of various kinds of interactive data visualizations, dashboards, and workbooks fromTableauDesktop toTableauServers Created schedules, Tasks, Groups, Users, Permissions and Subscriptions onTableauserver. Hands on experience in developing PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, triggers and T-SQL Writing complex SQL queries for data validation for verifying the SSIS Packages and business Rules. Proficient in OLTP, OLAP, BI tools like Tableau, MicroStrategy, Cognos and functionalities like Slice/Dice, Rollup/Drill down and Pivot Proficient with knowledge of Data warehouse architectures like enterprise DW architecture, Bus architecture, Dependent and independent data marts, federated architecture Proficient in R programming to perform statistical inference, derive regression models and predictive analytics Practical experience with Hadoop ecosystem with good understanding of HDFS, MapReduce, data nodes, name nodes; libraries like Hive, Pig, Mahout, administration tools like Zookeeper, Oozie Experienced in interacting with business users to identify their needs, gathering requirements and authoring Business Requirement Documents (BRD), Functional Requirement Document (FRD) and Software Requirement Specification (SRS) across the deliverables of a project. In-Depth Knowledge in facilitating Joint Application Development (JAD), Rapid Application Development (RAD) and Joint Requirement Planning (JRP) sessions, interviews, workshops and requirement elicitation sessions with end-users, clients, stakeholders and development team. Strong Knowledge with Iterative approach for Software Development as per Rational Unified Process (RUP). Involved in inception, elaboration, construction & transition phases. Experienced in analyzing and documenting business requirements and system functional specifications including Use Cases. Experienced in writing Test Plans and executing Test Cases. Good knowledge and understanding of risk and control Assessments.Experience working closely with the QA testing team and defect tracking. Skilled in validation and testing complex scenarios to achieve quality of standards in projects. Experienced in creating User Manuals and providing to users. Knowledge in designing the Web Services with strong understanding of SOA, 3-tier architecture, SOAP and RESTful APIs, configuring WSDL, loosely coupled and tightly coupled networks Creative and Assertive person capable of forming and maintaining positive and productive team environments with integrative thinking skills. Professional with extensive experience in the development, implementation and integration of strategies within a self-organizing cross functional team-oriented environment Facilitated scrum ceremonies, scrum reporting, user story planning, prioritization and estimation and executing sprints in cross functional environments TECHNICAL SKILLS: Operating Systems: Windows XP and later, MacOS, Linux RedHat SDLC Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile - SCRUM, Waterfall-Scrum Hybrid, Scrumban Project Management: Rally, JIRA, MS Project, MS Office Suite, VersionOne, HP ALM Testing Tools: HP QC, Cucumber, Selenium, Load Runner, SoapUI Modeling Tools: Erwin, ER Studio, Mockup Screens, MS Visio, ARIS Express, draw.io, Balsamiq ETL and Reporting Tools: Informatica Developer, IDQ, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, Tableau, Microstrategy, Pentaho, PowerBI, Cognos, Qlikview Databases: Oracle 11g, SQL Server 2012, MySQL, MS-Access, Teradata, HBase Languages: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, PL/SQL, R Programming, C++, Visual Basic Document Management Tools: Confluence, SharePoint 2013, 2010, 2007 Others: Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services, Visual Studio, Eclipse, STS, SSMS, Hadoop ecosystem PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, Boca Raton, FL Sr. Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in defining the Data Migration Plan. Prepared flow diagrams using MS Visio to analyze how the data will flow what shall be the most efficient approach for data migration and parallel testing. Created integration document from source to target and which are in turn mapped with the warehouse used for reporting purpose. Worked with On-site as well as Offshore team by effectively managing the time. Involved in identifying the requirements related to various functionalities based on the as-is and to-be structure. Served as a liaison between Business and Functional areas and technology to ensure that functionalities and domain related business requirements are clearly defined and communicated to technical team. Data Modeling for operational and Data warehousing systems Performed validation testing while loading data from source to staging and only load when it is validated. Captured tasks in JIRA and facilitated backlog grooming, sprint planning, stand ups and status meetings. Prepared mockups for UI based on the discussion with business users and incorporated based on the client needs. Prepared process flow diagrams, happy flow, alternative flow and unhappy flow as part of functional requirements. Worked with EAI architects and data architects as part of gathering requirements related to mapping. Developed Triggers, Procedures, Cursors using T-SQL as part of development. Responsible for mapping with JSON and RESTful APIs to integrate with different web services. Maintaining the standards followed by MDM as an enumerated list for certain elements like country and state. Prepared context diagrams, domain diagrams and sequence diagrams as part of capturing communication among different systems. Developed packages in SSIS for automation as well as integrating and loading in to the database. Use of data flow task, event handlers in case of error, fail component, different types of sources like csv/psv, excel, OLE DB; variables and parameters for creating automated packages. Elicit requirements and identifying business rules related to data validation, metadata and transformation after interactions with SMEs, Business Analysts, application team and involved stakeholders. Designing reports using Business Intelligence and reporting tools like SSRS (SQL Server Reporting services) Closely interacted with the Client and Functional consultant as creation of Mapping Design Document. Used forward engineering to create a Physical Data Model with ERWin that best suits the requirements from the Logical Data Model and assisted in designing in Entity-Relationship (ER) Diagram Raised/resolved issues in JIRA related to the epics I am responsible for. Created PL/SQL Stored procedures, packages, functions for data upload, bulk loading, Incremental loading. Created and optimized indexes and SQL queries to ensure peak performance at all times. Created Triggers to capture the Data manipulation transactions on the Fact tables and Fact history tables. Implemented the best practices of SQL usage within the project to improve the performance of the SQL. Extensively involved in data mapping, logical data modeling, ER diagrams, SQL scripts and SSIS packages. Enforced naming standards and data dictionary after discussion with business as well as data architect. Installed and configured SSRS - SQL server Reporting services and SSAS - SQL Server Analytical Services Worked in the loosely coupled service oriented architecture working with different APIs Analyzed loopholes in the ordering process related to promotions and subsidies, and addressed the fixes by communicating with data modeler/architect. Effectively incorporated change management whenever there is a change in functionality or business requirement through proper cycle and communication. Involved in Physical and Logical design, data modeling using ERwin for databases of new application. Deriving transformations logic based on the business rules defined by the client and business rules to be applied while working with SQL server Integration services (SSIS). Drafted the Test Plan and prepared various test cases, test scenarios and test scripts for the project items. Involved in unit testing, QA testing, parallel testing and data validation ensuring the data loaded works as required in the application. Coordinating User Acceptance testing(UAT) with end users and walkthrough sessions with client. Environment: Waterfall-agile hybrid, JIRA, Tortoise SVN, SQL Server 2012, SSIS, SSRS, SSMS, Visual Studio IDE, Erwin, HTML5/CSS3, Angular JS, Ajax, webMethods, Software AG, RESTful API, JSON, Java, Microsoft Azure, MS Office Suite (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, Visio), LucidChart Confidential, Pennington, NJ Sr. Business Systems Analyst / Scrum Master Responsibilities: Involved in defining the scope and business rules of the project, gathered business requirements, which involved interaction with cross functional teams to facilitate gathering of business requirements. Prepared UML diagrams like Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams using MS Visio to analyze the structure of the architectural design, behavior and the interaction within the system design. Created a mapping document that maps all the fields in the HTML pages to XML tags which are in turn mapped with the tables and column names in the database and involved in performing client side validation on the new system. Involved in continuously grooming the roadmaps and backlogs, integrating new information about architecture, resources and business strategy as well as existing and new constraints, assumptions and dependencies. Extensively used INVEST model to break down epics in to user stories. Facilitated Vertical slicing of the epics into smaller user stories during Backlog Grooming Meeting. Served as a liaison between Business and Functional areas and technology to ensure that functionalities and domain related business requirements for protecting sensitive data are clearly defined and communicated to technical team. Created mock-ups for the UI and assisted UX team in developing the UI with good aesthetics. Incorporating the requirements while designing UI with HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax. Developed SQL queries used in dashboard application creation and Business intelligence. Developed reports using Business Intelligence and reporting tools like SSRS (SQL Server Reporting services) and PowerBI. Worked with data architects in the design of database schemas. Installed and configured SSRS - SQL server Reporting services and SSAS - SQL Server Analytical Services Installed SQL Server 2012 on Microsoft Azure Cloud environments. Configured the Microsoft Azure security center with multifactor authentication and Azure notification hub for push notifications Worked in the loosely coupled service oriented architecture working with different APIs Understood the WSDL file to determine the operations that web service provide to in corporate the XML request and response format for data mapping Responsible for data mapping with XML and RESTful APIs to integrate with different web services. Implementation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of users. Involved in Physical and Logical design and Schemas for databases of new application. involved in creating data flow diagrams, data mapping from Source to stage and Stage to Target mapping documents indicating the source tables, columns, data types, transformations required and business rules to be applied while working with SQL server Integration services (SSIS). Drafted the Test Plan and prepared various test cases and test scenarios for the project items and involved in various kinds of testing activities such as Unit Testing, Smoke Testing, System Integration Testing and Regression Testing. Facilitated scrum ceremonies like Sprint Planning Meeting, Daily Scrum Meeting, Sprint Review Meeting, and Sprint Retrospective Meeting. Analyzed the Sprint Burn Down Chart, tracked team’s velocity, sprint release progress and prepared the status report. Identified and resolved the team impediments so that the team focuses on delivering the Potentially Shippable Product Increment in given sprint. Environment: Waterfall-Agile hybrid, Rally, Sharepoint, SQL Server 2012, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, PowerBI, Selenium, LoadRunner, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, TFS, IIS, REST, XML, SoapUI, Visual Studio IDE, C#, .Net framework, Microsoft Azure, MS Office Suite (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, Visio) Confidential, New York City, NY Sr. Business Systems Analyst / Scrum Master Responsibilities: Gather requirements by conducting meetings and brainstorming sessions with key stakeholders, end users and other SMEs Conducted Process Modeling, SWOT analysis, GAP Analysis, PESTLE analysis and document analysis to understand the as-is business process and to-be system Assisted in developing wireframes, mockups, use case diagrams and User stories. Splitting user stories after vertical slicing based on the business-critical data elements based on data model and assisted Product Owner and the team with estimation and prioritization of PBIs by facilitating required sessions Helped defining and validating the current data definitions, which served as an input for Data Modeling definitions Levels of Data Quality was identified after taking inputs from data stewards and data analysts Identified data sources and executed data cleansing, transforming before loading for data analysis to maintain integrity using Informatica Managed overall deployment of Metadata Responsible for creating user stories using INVEST acronym and SMART criteria for breaking in to tasks along with the acceptance criteria to suffice the definition of done Involved in Defect Tracking using HP QC as well as JIRA Used .xsd files for validating XML documents Extensively involved in data mapping, logical data modeling, creating class diagrams, ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle environment Created Data Stage jobs to extract, transform and load data into data warehouses from various sources like relational databases, application systems, temp tables, flat files etc. Analyzed and created facts and dimension tables and thus involved in dimensional modeling Analyze newly converted data to establish a baseline measurement for data quality in Data Warehouse Created, lead, and implemented Data Management and Governance goals and metrics on enterprise level Developed and provided formal and presentations to all DWH users ensuring an understanding of the dimensional model, metadata and effective usage Responsible for data integration across line of businesses and maintaining high data quality for MDM system Involved in UAT, test plans, documentation of test reports, etc. Assessed data repositories for compliance with data governance policies, standards and worked with all areas of the organization to ensure data quality and integrity Assured that all Artifacts are in compliance with corporate Policies and guidelines. Involved in creating dashboards, visualizations, analysis, prediction and decision making using Microstrategy Involved in Data wrangling using Microstrategy and further using attributes and metrics to create dynamic dashboards Facilitated an environment for the team to self-organize and grow cross functionally. Assisted the Data analyst for statistical inferences, performing exploratory data analysis, data cleansing and building regression models or predictive analysis using R Programming Environment: SAFe, JIRA, jQuery, Ajax, Oracle, Java, Informatica PowerCenter, Informatica Data Quality (IDQ), R Programming, HP QC, Microstrategy, Eclipse, Oracle SQL developer, XML, JSON, REST APIs, Visio Confidential, Seattle, WA Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Facilitated requirement workshops, user story workshops, to elicit requirements Assisted in validating XML documents, SOAP services, client side and server side validations Responsible for ensuring all the functionalities in UI layer developed on HTML, CSS, jQuery are met as per the business needs. Develop XML Mapping schema and documentation for requests and response Assisted in development and configuring WSDL and XML mapping. Assisted in metadata management, Master Data Management, Data Quality management Communicated the roles and responsibilities of Data Stewards Work with Data Managers, Data Stewards and technical staff to implement data cleansing plans and participate in the root cause analyses of data quality issues Derive explicit understanding from data and foster improved data quality and reporting Interacted with business users for functional and technical issues for apps framework and SOA. Create the web services and web logic development in app development and creation of application workflow Assisted in identifying the requirements for web traffic, key metrics using Google Analytics Assisted in developing OLAP cubes representing the subset of data mart for analytical purpose Facilitated scrum ceremonies like sprint planning, daily stand up, sprint review and sprint retrospective Facilitated Agile games like Planning poker, MoSCoW technique, maintained a track of team’s performance with sprint burndown charts and addressing impediments Created reports with Tableau using dimensions and measures to build interactive dashboards Integrated OLTP data base to Data warehouse and OLAP using Oracle Warehouse Builder as an ETL tool Written PL/SQL programs on Oracle Database. Performed performance tuning. Identifying the needs for the new features to be integrated into Hadoop ecosystem. Assisted with data ingestion into HDFS using Hadoop ecosystem SQOOP, FLUME and performing data transformation/analysis using PIG and HIVE Assisted in monitoring workflows developed using Oozie Supported Map Reduce Programs those are running on the cluster and cluster coordination services through Zookeeper Developed Test Plans and Test Cases in assistance with Quality Analyst, and maintained in Requirements Traceability Matrix(RTM) linked with user stories Facilitated Product Backlog Grooming meeting whenever required for reprioritization of product Backlog Documented the requirements as user stories in the tool JIRA Environment: Scrum methodology, JIRA, HP QC, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, SOAP, Altova XMLSpy, J2EE, Tableau, Oracle, Visio, Eclipse, Google Analytics, PL/SQL, Hadoop, HDFS, MapReduce, Oozie, Sqoop, FLUME, PIG, Hive Confidential  Business Analyst Responsibilities: As a Business Analyst, I worked with other Business Analysts liaison between customers and corporate staff and between IT and Business Units Performed Stakeholder Analysis to identify the key players for project success. Assisted in Organizing and maintaining the project artifacts, including timelines, project plans and other templates. Involved in gathering and synthesizing business requirements and translated into functional and non-functional requirements to be used as input to the functional design specifications. Reviewed and analyzed Business Requirement Document (BRD/HLD), Functional Requirement Document (FRD) and helped transforming them into a complete Software Requirement Specification (SRS) as to enable all the stakeholders to accurately understand requirements. Identified actors, paths and steps leading to an output and prepared Use Cases, Use Case Narratives and Use Case Diagrams to define actors, interactions and steps to achieve functionality. Supported in reviewing and gathering business requirements via JAD sessions Conducted RAD sessions, JRP sessions and JAD sessions with the management, vendors, users and other stakeholders for open and pending issues to develop specifications. Scheduled and conducted meetings with client/user work group (SME’s) members to identify requirements and documented them in System Requirement Specification Documents and Identified Priorities. Involved in GAP analysis around the identification of design rules and System Process Flows, User administration and requirements. Assessed the flaws in the existing as-is system and made clear recommendations of Business Process Improvements and incorporated them in the future to-be system design. Extensively worked in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Document analysis and represented them in Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) Developed use cases for Story boarding and wireframes for Interfacing. Involved in designing of 3-tier architecture projects using .Net, XML, HTML and CSS. Gathered the Business requirements & converted them into Business Requirement Documents (BRD). Made Screen Mockups/Definitions and Dependencies using Excel and Documented the Requirements Developed Use Case diagrams, business flow diagrams, Activity/State diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Visio so that developers and other stakeholders can understand the business process Submitted detailed Reports to Managers and the Team using Reporting Tools Coordinated JAD sessions to understand the user requirements and their system’s implementation Involved in the development of a Project Plan in conjunction to the Business and IT areas Facilitated static testing like walkthrough, peer reviews, code reviews with demonstration of AUT Conducted User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Business-to-Business Transaction testing Responsible for organizing the Quality Analyst (QA) walkthrough to explain proposed changes. Used QTP Application for Automated Testing. Environment: Waterfall, .Net, C#, MS Office Suite, XML, SQL Server, MS Project, Visio, Visual Studio, QTP, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Mockup Screens Confidential  Business Data Analyst Responsibilities: Prepared High Level Logical Data Models and BRD supporting documents containing the essential business elements, detailed definitions, and descriptions of the relationships between the actors to analyze and document business data requirements Designed ETL packages dealing with different data sources (SQL Server, Flat Files) and loaded the data into target data system by performing different kinds of transformations using SSIS Worked on all kinds of SQL Server Constraints (Primary Keys, Foreign Keys, Defaults and Check, Unique, etc.) Performed Repository Administration tasks (Creating Repositories, Users, assigning privileges, creating backups and recovery) Interviewing the Business and I.T. SMEs to gather critical data elements Written T-SQL procedures for processing business logic in the database. Tuned SQL queries for better performance Involved in creating and visualizing dashboards using Tableau Desktop Worked closely with the development team to identify and further define the data elements to be included in the application Made use of SQL queries and MS Excel to perform a detailed analysis on the existing human resource data, identified issues and worked with the technical team to find issue resolution Adept using Gap Analysis techniques to gain a clear understanding of the AS IS of the system and additionally derive new user scenarios to understand the potential TO BE system Monitoring SQL Server Jobs and managing daily and monthly data loading processes depending on the frequency of source data Documented system requirements and business requirements and created Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM). Performed the requirement analysis, impact analysis and documented Business Requirements Document (BRD) and Functional Specification Document (FSD) using Microsoft Visio and Microsoft Suite Prioritized deliverables, identified gaps, tracked defects, defined system requirements, created artifacts for testing and development.Documented the Traceability Matrix for tracing the Test Cases and requirements related to them Followed the UML based methods using Microsoft Visio to create Use Cases, Activity Diagrams/State Chart Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Collaboration Diagrams.Supported development of UAT cycle test scripts, Review User Acceptance Test Plan (UATP) and attend walkthroughs Performed functional, smoke, regression, usability, system and integration testing.Engaged in system testing during User Acceptance Testing (UAT) Identified, organized, and documented the changing requirements for the application using Sharepoint Environment: Waterfall Methodology, MS Office Suite, SQL Server, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, HP QC, MS Project, Visio, Tableau, Sharepoint, MS Excel Confidential  ETL Developer/SQL Developer Responsibilities: Analysis of the specifications provided by the clients Understanding the core business of ICICI and how the data flows Extract, transform and loading the data from different sources using different transformations and control flow tasks. Used control flow tasks like for loop container, for each loop container, sequence container, execute SQL task and data flow task. Creating package configurations, loggings, check points and break points in SSIS Written Stored Procedures, Functions, Indexes, joins and Views by using T-SQL Developed SSIS packages to transfer flat files from Staging server to data base server Processing of System flat files from feed hub to new SQL Server 2008 database Involved in performance tuning activities of SSIS packages As per client requirements generate the reports in the form of Table and Matrix. Writing SELECT queries to get required data and using DML, DDL statements to perform required activities. Maintained Supervisor by creating user accounts and assigning privileges. Involved in designing logical and physical Data Model designing. Analyzed and created facts and dimension tables. Performed dimensional modeling to create star/snowflake/constellation schemas and create various types of dimensions and fact tables based on the requirement. Monitoring SQL Server Jobs Presentation of the advanced features of ETL Tools to users to develop and run the reports easily. Documented all the information gathered and developed the policy, procedure and process documents. Oversaw the process of providing the clear picture to the developers and testers Environment: Waterfall Methodology, MS Office Suite, Windows, SSIS, SSMS, SQL Server, SSRS, Balsamiq 