SUMMARY An accomplished, highly motivated and detail - oriented Business System Analyst, Certified Scrum Master with 9 years of experience in various domains such as Banking, Telecom, Finance, E-Commerce. Managed and coached several teams on an agile framework to effectively release the projects. Experienced in Project management, Consulting, Strategic planning, Business analysis, and New Product development. Analytical thinker, Problem solver, Quick learner with the Ability to adapt to new environments. Expertise in Business Requirement Gathering, Business Process Modelling, Business Process Flows and Business Analysis. Proficient in different elicitation techniques such as Brainstorming, Client Interviewing, Interface Analysis, Prototyping, Survey/Questionnaire, Focus Groups and Document Analysis. Experience in conducting Joint Application Requirement(JAR), Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions for deriving functional/non-functional requirements. Extensive experience in creating Screen Mockups and Wireframes, conducting GAP Analysis and Impact Analysis, SWOT analysis, Cost Benefit Analysis, Risk Analysis. Proficient in implementation of Service Oriented Architecture in the form of Web Services and Web Methods. Created Use Case Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Data-Flow Diagrams, Process Work-Flow Diagrams, Class Diagrams and other UML-based diagrams using MS Visio, Rational Rose etc. Worked on Data Warehousing projects and did Data Integration, Data Validations, and Data Mapping and ETL Process for MDM purposes. Involved in various Testing Methods such as Black box testing, Functional Testing, Regression testing, Performance Testing, Integration testing as well as User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Strong knowledge on regulations like Fair credit reporting act (FCRA), Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA), Real-Estate Settlement Procedure Act (RESPA) and Private Mortgage Insurance (PMI). Developed good knowledge of Equities, Fixed Income, Bonds and Bond maturity, Bond Pricing, rate of return, horizon time, stock size, style, market risk, and volatility. Excellent Communication, Problem-Solving, Critical Thinking, Conflict Resolution, Facilitation, And Documentation skills along with good Process Management skills to gather requirements. Facilitated various scrum ceremonies such as Sprint Planning, Daily Stand Up, Backlog Grooming, Sprint Review, and Sprint Retrospective as well as Spike sessions. Knowledge of OTC Derivatives, CDS, CDO, Post priced SWAPS. Experience maintaining Scrum Artifacts like Product Backlog, Sprint Backlog, Burn down chart and Burnup chart. Extensive experience working with Distributed Scrum Teams in managing and delivering outcomes for each sprint. Experience working with and training new scrum teams, in transition to AGILE from traditional methodologies. Experience with scrum techniques such as planning poker, Moscow, INVEST, T-shirt size, Silent writing and SMART technique. Excellent knowledge in Performing analysis in Excel, Pivot Table and Graphs. TECHNICAL SKILLS SDLC Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile, Hybrid Frameworks: Scrum, SAFe, Kanban, XP, RAD, TDD, FDD Modeling Tools: MS Visio, Smart Draw, Axure RP Pro, UML Designer Analysis Tools: MS Project, SAP Power Designer Testing Tools: HP ALM, QF Test, SOAP UI, Postman, Swagger Project Management: Oracle Glassfish, MS Project, HP ALM Development Management: JIRA, Rally (Agile Central), TFS Databases: Oracle 10g,11, MS SQL Server 2008, 2012, MySQL ETL Tools: Informatica 7, Informatica 9.0.1, ODI BI Tools: Tableau, Power BI, SQL Reporting Services like SSRS, SSAS, SSIS Web Technologies: SOAP And Rest, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL, Ajax. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Hills Borough, FL Business System Analyst RESPONSIBILITIES: Organized several Brainstorming meetings, Open & Closed Interviews as well as Surveys with the various stakeholders to elicit the high-level requirements. Maintained MOMs for all these meetings to facilitate documentation phase and for reference. Drafted a Product Road Map for various stages and releases throughout the project lifecycle. Created and maintained work breakdown structure (WBS) for the project using MS Visio. Participated and facilitated sprint planning, daily stand-up meetings, reviews, retrospectives and demos. Used TFS to document and visualize stories and tasks. Assisted Product Owner PO in gathering requirements from the stakeholders and in prioritizing user stories and validated the user stories. Acted as a Proxy PO in many situations when required. Performed in-depth GAP analysis on the various high level requirements and documented my findings based on the As-Is, To-be format and the way to bridge the gap. Managed and Identified various Dependencies with other Internal And external teams. Developed Wireframes and dynamic Prototypes using MS Visio and HTML/CSS to provide the development team with a realistic visualization of the project. Assisted developers in writing client-side validations and creating Ajax for dynamic and interactive UI pages. Created UML diagrams such as Activity flow, Sequence flow, and Data flow diagram using MS Visio. Involved in designing and modellingWebServices Orchestration. Facilitated the process of WSDL lookup for SOAP web services. Tested Web Services using SOAP UI and created and tested API. Coordinated execution of Unit testing, System integration testing, and User acceptance testing (UAT). ENVIRONMENT: MS Word, MS Excel, MS Visio, JAVA, XML, HTML, CSS, SOAP UI, UML, TFS, SQL, Altova XML Spy. Confidential - Overland Park, KS Business System Analyst RESPONSIBILITIES: Conducted Joint Requirements Planning(JRP) sessions with the Subject Matter Experts(SME) and the key stakeholders to understand business processes and the functionalities in detail. Used Rally to document and visualize stories, tasks and measure performance through burn down charts/velocity charts. Collaborated with Data Admins of respective departments and did Data profiling on the source data. Involved in the design of Data-warehouse using Star-Schema methodology and converted data from various sources to oracle tables. Used Tableau and generated reporting dashboards for business as proof of concept. Modelled complex Web Orchestrations involving multiple web services from distributed teams. Implemented OLAP techniques, performed Drill analysis, Slicing & dicing on the data using SQL Server Analytical Services (SSAS) and involved in created PROC Reports using Base SAS. Used Oracle Database Integrator for the ETL process. ENVIRONMENT: Rally, ODI, MS Visio, MS Project, UML, XML, Java, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Power Point, Oracle 10g, SAP ERP. Confidential - Malvern, PA Business Systems Analyst RESPONSIBILITIES: Created artifacts like BRDs, SRSs, Business Systems Design Report, required traceability matrix, Release Notes, Issue logs. Managed the requirements and the traceability matrix using rational requisite pro. Used Visual Studio for Mock screens and Wire frames, designed Use Case Diagrams. and wrote their specifications in the Use Case Specification documents using UML/Visio. Designed and developed dashboard for real-time information by embedding AJAX in the java script, as well as access to 10-year stock information, trends & behavior. Good CFTC & MiFID Regulation knowledge. Collaborated with the QA team to ensure adequate testing of software both before and after completion, maintained quality procedures, and ensured that appropriate documentation is in place. Designed the Test Plan and Test Cases for all processes and Web Services. Performed Data Analysis and Data Mapping to generate Crystal Reports. ENVIRONMENT: MS Visio, MS Project, Windows XP, SQL Queries, PLSQL, XML, VB, Java, SSRS, SSAS, .Net, HP Quality Centre. Confidential Business Analyst RESPONSIBILITIES: Gathered requirements, documented artifacts and had internal walkover sessions with the Team. Performed cost-benefit analysis and forecasting for the project. Conducted walkthrough sessions with the developers. Created working mockups, prototypes and various UML diagrams for the business and the Team. Performed business & functional analysis to create evaluation documents, workflow analysis recommendations, detailed system specifications and alternative future state depiction workflows & process diagrams. Assisted testing team in writing test cases, test scenarios and conducted UAT testing. ENVIRONMENT: Waterfall Methodology, JIRA, MS Project, MS Office (MS Word, MS Excel and MS PowerPoint), Mock-up screens, UAT Testing, SharePoint. Confidential Data Analyst RESPONSIBILITIES: Used various elicitation techniques to gather requirements. Created Data Mapping document for the data developers Created multiple workflows and ER Diagrams. Was Involved in Extraction Transformation and Loading process using Informatica. Did Data Visualization and Reporting using SSIS and SSRS. ENVIRONMENT: Waterfall, Windows 98/XP, MS Office Suite, C++, MS Visio, UML, SharePoint 2007, SQL Server Services, Informatica, DB2, Oracle Data base. 