SUMMARY Senior Business Analyst and Scrum master with Around 8 years of experience in IT industry with strong knowledge and experience working with different SDLC methodologies such as Waterfall, Scrum Worked in different projects on financial services like Credit appraisal system, Data warehouse, Amazon web services, Inventory management system, Order management system and Advance pricing. Experience in eliciting and documenting business requirements by conducting JAD sessions, one - one and Group interviews, focus groups, Job Shadowing, Reengineering and Document Analysis. Experience in performing ‘Feasibility Analysis, GAP analysis, Risk Analysis, Cost-Benefit Analysis for business processes and to map the compatibility of the new system with the requirements. Created various documents including the Business Requirements Document (BRD), Functional Requirement Document (FRD), Systems Design Specification (SDS), Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) and testing documents. Created Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams such as Use Case, Activity and Sequence. Experience in creating process workflows, data flow diagrams, and wireframe and mockup screens. Worked on implementation of SOA architecture, web services and web methods. Complete understanding of Web-Services (and their documentation) like REST and SOAP (and involved in their testing using SOAP UI) using XML, WSDL and UDDI, using internet protocol suite like HTTP under Three-Tier Architecture and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). Exposure to Client, Server and Database validations and scripted XML for request and responses of web methods to web services using XMLSpy to assist the development team. Negotiated and updated SLA contracts for the internal web services. Analyzed the requirements and created business rules for client side validations to help development team. Experience in developing Test plan, Test scenario, Test cases, in manual and automated test environments. Knowledge of Testing Life Cycle. Assisted in Black Box testing, Functional and Non-Functional Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing, Performance and User Acceptance Testing. Solid understanding of Database concepts like Master Data Management, Data Warehousing, Data Structures, Schemas and Dimensional Modeling. Proficient at creating Data Mapping Document and identifying basic transformations to cleanse the data, improving Data Quality. Performed SQL queries using different functions like joins, unions, group by and aggregate functions to extract data from different databases (Oracle, SQL Server) for timely reporting and validation. Evaluated change requests by performing impact analysis on the triple constraints of the project. Skilled at managing and breaking-down an Epic in the Product Backlog into User Stories that abide by the INVEST criteria. Created and maintained Sprint Artifacts like the Sprint Burndown chart, Sprint Burn-up Chart and Product Burn- Down chart. Assisted Product owner in prioritizing Product Backlog Items based onMoscow, Kano and Walking Skeleton models and estimating Product Backlog items using techniques like Planning Poker, T-shirt Sizing. Facilitated Backlog Refinement, Sprint Planning, Daily Stand up, Sprint Review and Sprint Retrospective meetings and improved team’s performance and dynamics. Scrum Master Accredited Certification from International Scrum Institute. Carried out project management duties by led and coordinated with multiple teams, managing cross team dependencies, monitoring and presenting project progress by tracking user stories. Facilitated meeting with stakeholders, Scrum team, developers to gather and prioritize requirements, assign and follow up on deliverables, and address open questions to enable projects to continue moving forward. TECHNICAL SKILLS Modeling Tools: MS Visio, Balsamic Mockups, OmniGraffle, RML Business Analysis: MS Project, JIRA, Rally, HP ALM, MS Office Suite, Oracle R12 Defect tracking tools: HP ALM QC 11.0, Team Foundation Server Reporting/BI Tools: Cognos,Tableau, Crystal Reports, Informatica Power center, Oracle Data integrator Repository Tools: SharePoint, Bitbucket, GitHub Operations System: Windows, Unix and Linux Documentation: Adobe Professional, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Office Databases: Oracle, MySQL, Maria DB, ProQuest Web-Technologies: XML, HTML, SOAP, REST, Web Services Web servers: Apache 2.0.52, WebLogic8.1.6, Windows 7,8,8.1, MAC OS. Methodologies: Waterfall, Scrum PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Glenallen, VA Sr.Business Analyst Responsibilities: Assisting the project manager in preparing project charter, scope planning and business case documentation by identifying key business requirements for the project. Performing gap, impact and cost/benefit analysis between current-state and desired future-state as defined by business needs. Working with the business to elicit and analyze business requirements within the scope of the project. Drafting and maintaining business requirements and align them with functional and technical requirements. Creating workflows, diagrams and mock up screens for business process flows and use cases. Managing the project related artifacts, features and user stories on Team Foundation Software. Maintaining Requirement Traceability Matrix to keep track for business requirement against application testing. Implementing user acceptance testing with a focus on documenting defects and executing test cases. Managing the implementation cycle to include adherence to critical dates, testing, escalations, prioritization and customer communications. Recommending operational improvements based on tracking and analysis of customer payments data. Creating dashboards using Adobe Analytics & Tableau in order to generate reports for business analytics and performance improvement. Tracking and managing the progress of both onshore and offshore teams using Agile Scrum Methodology Organizing Scrum Meetings on an ongoing basis to ensure project completion in an iterative way. Ensuring that the final user documentation effectively conveys the information the client needs Confidential, New Jersey Sr.Business Analyst Responsibilities: Performed GAP and assisted in Cost-Benefit analysis to evaluate the enhancement and impact on business process. This intranet application helps to operate on customer details, perform analysis, review results and create reports on them for working capital finance for small scale and medium scale industry. Created a list of customers and detailed information of their payments and receivables which would help the financial advisors to make efficient decisions on the appraisal of the credit. Reviewed all the documents and rectified errors and made sure every requirement is in match with scope and also with all the regulations and in accordance to compliance. Conducted JAD sessionsto assess needs, gather requirements and decide deliverables. Elicited requirements from the intended users and documented the requirements in Business requirement documents (BRD) and Functional requirement documents (FRD) Managed change requests from stakeholders based on the criticality of the request for deciding on making the change in the project I was involved in creating UML diagrams like Activity flow diagram, use case, fordefining business processes. Conducted JAD sessions to gather the design requirements for the solution proposed. Created mockup diagrams to understand the work flow in user interfaces in coordination with UX team. Responsible for creating process workflow of the new enhancement with the integrated architecture. Developed client side and server side validations by writing business rules in the business engine acquired from the stakeholder. Served on the communications conduit between IT and thebusinessside in Service Oriented Architecture(SOA), and the web services. Assisted in Negotiated and established internal and external SLAs and made sure they are met all possible times. Worked toward secure integration points for transmitting data with end to end encryption over the net. Involved in finding web services from the internal repository and external vendors. Developed Requirement Traceability Matrix and prepared test data for UAT testing. Assisted in creating and reviewed Test Planandexecuted and reviewed Test Cases and its results. Monitored performance testing results for several modules within the application. Documented the technical specifications of the web service for use in the binding template of the service UDDI. Documented sample requests, depicting the format of the calls to and from the web service. Organized Triage calls to resolve conflicts as well as to work out defects identified in testing Environment: Scrum, Windows 8/10, Microsoft Office Suite, Microsoft Visio, Oracle, JIRA, SharePoint, Tableau, SOAPUI, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Responsive Design, understanding data specifications Confidential, WI Business analyst/Scrum master Responsibilities: I was involved in Gathered requirements, functional specifications, designed, tested, and enhanced business systems. Intensively worked on Roth IRA, Traditional IRA, Rollovers and Transfer IRA. Utilized Agile Scrum practices to help the team maintain their velocity within sprints Facilitated Daily Scrum Meetings and Sprint Review meetings Led planning meetings for the scrum teams on distributing stories and recognizing cross team dependencies. Participated in scrum of scrum to identify dependencies and mitigate risk exposure Conducted Estimation Training Sessions for the scrum Development team to help them better estimate the efforts required for completing user stories based on Relative Sizing technique. Organized and facilitated sprint planning, daily stand-up meetings, reviews, retrospectives, release planning, demos and other Scrum-related meetings. Facilitated with the Scrum Team and the Product Owner to negotiate the minimum viable product for delivery. Worked with the engineering managers to identify cross-team dependencies and manage inter-team tasks. Worked with the product owner and development team in deciding and negotiating the definition of done and acceptance criteria for Potentially Shippable Product Increment (PSPI). Maintained artifacts such as Sprint burn down, Product burn down chart, list of impediments and defect logs, which in turn assist in velocity and capacity calculation for superior planning of upcoming sprints. Responsible for decomposing EPICS into manageable user stories by applying the INVEST criteria. Tracked the progress of the project using JIRA and continuously monitoring scope creep and technical debt at all stages. Used JIRA project management software for developing the sprint burn down and burn up charts, velocity charts throughout the sprints to track velocity as well as determine capacity of the development team and update the user stories and tasks that are completed in various sprints into the product backlog artifact Analyzed business requirements and created business rules for client side validations to help development team. Lead a team of 8 successfully through all stages of Scrum. Environment: MS Office Suite (Word, PowerPoint, Access, Excel, Outlook), MS Project, MS SharePoint, MS Visio, SCRUM, MS SQL, Business Objects, Quality Center, Rally. Confidential, Austin, TX Business analyst/Scrum Master Responsibilities: I was involved in Gathered requirements, functional specifications, designed, tested, and enhanced business systems. Typically include customer payment monitoring, financial transactions, as well as many other types of work. Installing and configuring system software closely coordinating with system programmers and administrators. Developed technical solutions tobusiness problems, Created Vision and Use case documents. Worked on a mainframes platform. Closely worked with System programmers, System administrators. Application designers and programmers, System operators, Production control analysts. Multiple system integrations were necessary for that created an Activity floe diagrams, as it was Mainframescreated alternate flow diagrams in the mainframeenvironment. Developed and implemented comprehensive test plans to ensure that systems and programs are tested. Created GUI elements, Workflow Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and cross functional diagrams. Designed wireframes and mockups and designed the Catalog management process. Closely monitored the project with all the compliance and risk involved and mitigated those risk with mitigation plan. Built Secured firewalls for communication purposes and also for information reporting. Developed Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, and Class Diagrams. Performed Data Analysis on generating Canned as well as Ad-Hocreports and Data mapping activities for the reports using various tools like Informatics, Tableau and some reporting tools like Crystal Reports Reviewed defect reporting and resolution in MS Project Clear Quest to track project progress Conducted ETL testing process for data quality, data integrity, data transformations and data validations. Prepared Test Reports and submitted the Bug Findings to the Bug Tracking system using Quality Center and its modules (Requirements, Test Plan, Test lab and Defects). Prepared test condition document Facilitated Functionality, Integration, GUI, Regression, Usability and System testing. Create Documentation explaining how Master Data Models for MDM initiative are being populated with data from existing source data systems Used various SQL commands like Create, Delete, Update, and Inner, Outer, Left, and Right joins to update the database and retrieve data for data analysis Tested Web Services /XML / SOAP and Restful services using SoapUI tool. Involved in creating a detailed System Test Plans, Test Cases and Test Scripts for different modules in the Application per the Business Requirements and performed automation testing. Actively trained business users involved in User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and helped them understand UAT procedure. Environment: Scrum, Windows 8/10, Microsoft Office Suite, Microsoft Visio, TOAD, Oracle, Java, JIRA, Confluence, SharePoint, Tableau, SOAPUI Confidential Business analyst/QA analyst Responsibilities: Gathered requirements, functional specifications, designed, tested, and enhanced business systems. Developed technical solutions tobusiness problems, Created Vision and Use case documents. Developed and implemented comprehensive test plans to ensure that systems and programs are tested. Created GUI elements, Workflow Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and cross functional diagrams. Designed wireframes and mockups and designed the Catalog management process. Developed Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, and Class Diagrams. Prepared Test Reports and submitted the Bug Findings to the Bug Tracking system using Quality Center and its modules (Requirements, Test Plan, Test lab and Defects). Prepared test condition document Assisted project leader for project management and delivering projects. Facilitated Functionality, Integration, GUI, Regression, Usability and System testing. Determined proper installation parameters for software and hardware, for smooth integration and transition. Analysed detects, identified and corrected technical problems and deficiencies Tested Web Services /XML / SOAP and RESTFulservices using SoapUI tool. Involved in creating a detailed System Test Plans, Test Cases and Test Scripts for different modules in the Application per the Business Requirements and performed automation testing. Confidential Quality Analyst Responsibilities: Gathered requirements, functional specifications and documented in BRD and FRD Developed technical solutions tobusiness problems, Created Vision and Use case documents. Developed and implemented comprehensive test plans to ensure that systems and programs are tested. Created GUI elements, Workflow Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and cross functional diagrams. Designed wireframes and mockups and designed the Catalog management process. Developed Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, and Class Diagrams. Prepared Test Reports and submitted the Bug Findings to the Bug Tracking system using Quality Center and its modules (Requirements, Test Plan, Test lab and Defects). Prepared test condition document Assisted project leader for project management and delivering projects. Facilitated Functionality, Integration, GUI, Regression, Usability and System testing. Determined proper installation parameters for software and hardware, for smooth integration and transition. Analysed detects, identified and corrected technical problems and deficiencies Tested Web Services /XML / SOAP and RESTFul services using SoapUI tool. Involved in creating a detailed System Test Plans, Test Cases and Test Scripts for different modules in the Application according to the Business Requirements and performed automation testing.