SUMMARY 8 years of diverse progressive experience with emphasis on Business Analysis, Business Process Modeling, System Analysis and Software Development Life Cycle in Health Care Industry. Expertise in working with Business Analysis, Business Processes, Business Process Models, Business Flow Diagrams and Business Requirement Documents. Extensive experience in translating business requirements and user expectations into detailed specifications by using various Text formats & Unified Modeling Language (UML). Experienced with all the phases of SDLC throughout the project life cycle in Rational Unified Process (RUP) environment and the creation of artifacts and management of various roles specified by RUP. Solid background in Software Development Life Cycle methodologies such as the Traditional Waterfall Model as well as iterative approach to software development. Expertise in requirement analysis and designing Use Cases. Proficient in creating Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Class Diagrams etc. Expert in facilitating rapid development processes such as JADs and RADs and ensuring that all viewpoints, ideas and problems are addressed. Extensive experience working with senior management, business users and technical staff Experienced in documenting business process workflows using Rational Rose, Rational Software Modeler and Visio Excellent capability in identifying, documenting and analyzing business requirements specifications (BRS), System Design Specifications (SDS) and Software Requirement Specification (SRS). Experienced in performing Business Process Analysis to check the compatibility of the existing system infrastructure with the new business requirements. Involved in reviewing test procedures, defining test cases, reviewing and maintaining test scripts, analyzing bugs and User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Extensive experience in developing User Interfaces/Wireframes. TECHNICAL SKILLS Methodologies: Rational Unified Process (RUP), Unified Modeling Language (UML), Agile, Waterfall Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows 7/95/98/NT/2000, XP & Vista Testing Tools: Quality Center, Test Director, QTP, LoadRunner. BI Tools: OBIEE, Cognos BI, Power BI Project Management Tool: MS Project, JIRA Database: SQL, Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12, SQL Server, MS Access CRM: HSP, Oracle CRM PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, CA Business Analyst Responsibilities: Proficient in process modeling and created UML Diagrams (Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, and Activity Diagrams) Workflow diagrams employing MS Visio. Possess through knowledge in designing Prototypes, Mock - up screens, and Wireframes using MS Visio and Balsamic during developing Graphical User Interface based application. Extracting the Business Requirements from the end users keeping in mind their need for the application and preparing Software Requirement Specifications (SRS). Collaborate and initiate in the planning, design, development and deployment of new applications and system enhancements. Responsible for creating Epics, Features and User stories in TFS as part of working on an agile environment. Interacting with the stakeholders by interviewing them, by preparing questionnaire and getting feedback. Conducted Requirement Workshop to gather requirements from various departments. Conducted Focus Groups and Interviews with stake holders and subject matter experts to understand functionalities to be incorporated in the platform, deemed critical for the respective organizational needs. Worked with PM, BA on project planning in Workfront and creating milestones that the team needs to complete by delivery schedule. Maintain Workfront to develop weekly / monthly reports for the executive operations. Maintained project integration documents to review and route digital documents for the approvals to responsible work stream managers, stakeholder for approvals using Workfront tool. Assisting QA team in developing the test cases. Responsible for defining the scope of the project, gathering business requirements, documenting them textually or within models. Supporting IT unit creating functional specification documents, User Interfaces for the design, development and implementation of strategic projects. Analyzed and documented Business requirements and detail design of the software for full understanding of the business. Responsible for creating software requirement specifications for the EDI transaction files 837I, 837P, 999, 277, 278, and other eligibility files. Gathering and documenting the requirements that are critical to the business mission and using those requirements to design application software. Conduct SRS reviews and walkthroughs with the designers, developers and stakeholders. Environment: Health Solution Plus, Case Complete, MS Office, Visual Basic, Windows, MS Visio, MS Access, SQL, TFS, Workfront, Power BI, Citrix Server. Confidential, Duluth, MN Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Interacted with the stakeholders by interviewing them, by preparing questionnaire and getting feedback. Communicated Project Requirements, Business Issues, Solution and made recommendation. Prepared AS-IS diagrams to ensure that the business process was understood the right way. Collaborate and initiate in the planning, design, development and deployment of new applications and system enhancements Communicate those enhancements, changes, and modifications to internal and external customers and provide them with training and assistance for the supporting areas. Used essential/basic SQL queries for generating adhoc reporting. Assisted QA team in tracking and management of defects and bugs using Quality Center. Preparation of Induction Manual and Training Presentation using Captivate Responsible for defining the scope of the project, gathering business requirements, documenting them textually or within models. Supported IT unit creating functional specification documents, User Interfaces for the design, development and implementation of strategic projects. Analyzed and documented Business requirements and detail design of the software for full understanding of the business. Gathering and documenting the requirements that are critical to the business mission and using those requirements to design application software. Created use case scenarios and documented work flow and business process. Used Requisite Pro to document requirements, associated change requests with requirements and connected requirements with Use cases. Prepared the UML Use Cases using Rational Rose. Used MS Visio for flow-charting, process model and architectural design of the application. Documented business workflows textually as well as in UML diagrams according to RUP for the stakeholder review. Conducted FRS and URS reviews and walkthroughs with the designers, developers and Environment: Veeva CRM, MS Office, Visual Basic, Win Runner, Test Director, Window, MS Visio, SQL, Citrix Server. Confidential, McKinney, Texas Business Analyst Responsibilities: Experience with Software development life cycle (SDLC) methodology, framing out Business Transaction rules and related Documentation, creating Test Plans based on Functionality and Business rules. Extracted the Business Requirements from the end users keeping in mind their need for the application and prepared Business Requirement Documents (BRD). Involved in all phases of software development life cycle in RUP framework. Analyzed and collected business requirements, identified system interfaces and created the requirements specification document. Expertise in using data modeling tools like MS Visio, Erwin Tool, and Navicat Data Modeler for logical and physical design of databases. Extensively interacted with both user group and development team in coming up with structured charts, Class and sequence diagrams. Managed and tracked change control process of requirements and design changes using Rational Requisite Pro. Documented the changes, issues and their impact on the system design and delivery. Provided documentation such as requirements management plans, functional requirements, test plans and test cases. Incorporated the best practice methodologies as advocated by the Rational Unified Process. Designed and analyzed Business Process Model, Use Case model and test procedures based on RUP methodology. Performed requirement analysis by gathering both functional and nonfunctional requirements based on interactions with the process owners & stake holders and document analysis, represented them in requirements traceability matrix (RTM) using Requisite Pro. Performed user interviews, JAD sessions. Wrote user requirements specification (URS) and Functional requirements specification (FRS) Documents as per the Business requirements and process flow. Environment: UML, Caliber-RM, Oracle, PL/SQL, Windows, Java Script, JSP, Unix Shell Scripts, Stream Line Editor(SED), Erwin, Visio, Rational Suite (Rational Test Manager, Rational Robot) Confidential Jr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Prepared Business Object / Business Process Models that included modeling of all the activities of business from conceptual to procedural level. Contributed and signed off on all new Business Process Design plans, working closely with Project and Product Managers. Developed and implemented business modeling standards and usage Ensured Delivery excellence in time, Planned and Defined Execution Strategy for streamlining Business Process. Created Use Case specifications, business flow diagrams, Activity/State diagram and Sequence diagram using MS Visio and object oriented (OOA/OOD) methodology. Worked with UI / UX team in designing the forms for evaluation submission for mobile devices. Defined Change Management Process for Release Management Team. Mapped process flow; assess as-is process through user interviews, data collection and analysis, design and evaluation of to-be process solutions. Worked on various aspects of Siebel Application like visibility rules based on positions and responsibilities, Workflows, various Siebel constructs. Extensively used MS office, office tools with SharePoint for project presentations, designs, data sheets, requirements, BRD, FRD NFRD and other documentations as requested by business and stakeholders to keep track of project design and for proper understanding. Responsible for architecting integrated HIPAA, Medicare solutions. Environment: UML, Oracle, PL/SQL, Windows, Java Script, Unix Shell Scripts, Stream Line Editor(SED), Erwin, Visio. 