SUMMARY Master of Business Administration with 5+ years of Business Analyst experience. Experienced in performing analysis of information systems and communicated to technical and non - technical teams. Experienced in retail sector and Healthcare with Payer/Claims/Medicare/Medicaid/PBM experience. knowledge of end-to-endclaims experience in government, commercial health plans. Well Versed with SDLC phases and processes. Worked on Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall methodologies. Has understanding of Financials like AR/AP/GL. Expertise in gathering, analysing and documenting business requirements and developing Business Requirement Document and Functional Requirement Specifications, and ERP, database query, and reporting. Experience as a Business analyst and report development with Business Intelligence tools Tableau 9.x/8.x (Desktop) and Argos. Strong experience in requirements elicitation techniques-conducting user interviews, document analysis, JAD/JAR sessions and managing the requirements. Knowledge of MS Access, SQL server and Oracle database Experience in supporting UAT testing, interacting with developers, to communicate the defects. Experienced in business process analysis, data modelling, and handling quality issues. Has knowledge of Data Analysis using Excel, Azure ML, and SPSS for target mappings and reporting to provide solutions to the business problems. Perform development activities by gathering requirements, designing solutions through report development and custom using Tableau APIs Ability to Learn business processes related to complex accounting application. Gathered business and technical requirements for application modifications and enhancements and assisted in testing process through development of test cases and data. Documented business process and program changes and Developed innovative and creative output based on interpretation and analysis. Provided design and documentation at an application or function capability level using MS Visio. Motivated team player with strong Interpersonal skills, excellent communication and writing skills capable of handling multiple tasks and responsibilities at the same time. Lead in solution designing, development, and deployment across multi-dimensional teams. Flexible and versatile to adapt to any new environment and work on any project or product. Team player, Result Driven, Self- Motivated professional with excellent verbal and written communication skills and problem-solving abilities. Ability to handle multiple and large initiatives in parallel. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: C, jQuery, SQL Data Base: DBMS SQL server Tools: Experience: Crystal Reports 8.0, Test Director/ Quality Center/ALM, JIRA, Rational Clear Quest, MS VISIO, MS Project, Tableau, Azure ML, SPSS Operating Systems: MS-DOS, Windows95/98/NT/2000/XP, Windows NT, Linux/Unix Office Tools: MS Office Suite (Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint & Outlook) SDLC Models/Technologies: Rational Unified Process (RUP), Waterfall, UML & Microsoft Office SharePoint 2007, Agile, SWOT, Change Management PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Boston, MA  Business Analysis Consultant Responsibilities: Organized and executed, assigned business projects on behalf of clients according to client’s requirements. Meet with assigned clients when needed and perform an initial assessment of a problematic situation. Collect information about the client’s business through a variety of methods like primary and secondary research. Analysed and interpreted data to unearth weaknesses, problems and comprehended the causes. Involved in Trouble Shooting, Performance tuning of reports, resolving issues within Tableau Server and Tableau Dashboards. Formulated recommendations and solutions with attention to a client’s wishes, capabilities and limitations forming concise reports. Presented findings and suggestions to clients with ample justification and practical advice. Developed detailed business plans to drive small or radical changes. Assisted the client in implementing the plan and resolve any occasional discrepancies. Provided guidance for any occurring problems and issues. Established relationship with business partners in order to provide solutions Provided detailed, accurate and timely updates on current project activities to all stakeholders Developed and assist in the presentation of business cases. Confidential  Business Analyst Responsibilities: Gathered, analysed and documented business requirements, developing Business Requirement Documents and Functional Requirement Specifications. Engaged in projects for a variety of departmental managers. Worked with the technical team for the data extraction, transformation and the data. Worked on the Meta data and creating various tables and columns in the data Warehouse. Created FRS, Traceability Matrix, project plan, BRD, test plans, and test cases Worked on creating story cards and updating the storyboard for each sprint. Created wireframes using Visio, to show a graphic representation how the user experience would look like. Conducted Gap analysis between the existing Centuary website and new website to understand and how best to provide the more user-friendly experience compared to existing website. Extracted and analysed data using source mappings to understand existing application. Participated in Sprint Planning and Review sessions to plan for sprints ahead as a part of Scrum, well versed with agile methodology. Planned and documented procedures for data processing and prepared data flow diagrams for the application. Environment: Windows 2000/XP, Microsoft Office, MS Visio, Rational Requisite Pro, MS Office, SQL Server, Agile, Office 365, MS Project, MS Access. Confidential  Business Analyst Responsibilities: Gathered requirements and prepared Use Cases (General System Design documents and Detailed System Design document) by interviewing tax agents, users and clients. Lead Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions with the users and clients to identify business rules, business process flows and requirements. Documented high-level Use Cases and derived detailed low-level System Use Cases and Functional Designs. Demonstrated experience in Agile, Scrum methodology activities for Requirements and Analysis phases. Translated the business needs into system requirements and communicated with the business on a non-technical level. Worked with the software architects / developers to ensure that the applications conform to customer requirements using ASP.NET 3.5, C#.Net, AJAX, XML, XSLT, jQuery, NetSuite ERP and SQL 2005. Developed timelines for project delivery, and managed projects and resources to successful completion. Performed User Acceptance Testing and reporting the bugs to the development team. Conducted project related presentations and provided reports to the higher management. Environment: ASP.NET 3.5, C#.Net, AJAX, XML, XSLT, jQuery, NetSuite ERP and SQL 2005 Confidential  Business Analyst Responsibilities: Scheduled meetings with business users and conducting work sessions to gather requirements for the features required by Marriage Bureaus. Involved in JAD sessions with the solutions team, business teams and the technical team to resolve issues and come up with new ideas for implementation. Documenting functional and non-functional specifications concerning the website development. Creating process flows based on the system requirements. Interacted with client and the Technical Team for requirement gathering and translation of Business Requirement to Technical specifications. Working with SQL queries for data analysis to do basic checks such as record counts, duplicates etc, creating joins and identifying primary keys Conducting testing as a part of the unit testing and working with the users during UAT. This included logging defects and tracking defects in Quality Centre and resolving defects. Environment: Windows 2000/XP, Microsoft Office, MS Visio, Rational Requisite Pro, MS Office, SQL Server, Agile, Office 365, MS Project, MS Access. 