SUMMARY Business Analyst and Business Systems Analyst with 8+ years of experience in Business Development Process, Systems and Data Analysis. Experience with working in the Banking, Mortgage & Insurance domain. Extensive knowledge, expertise in various phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) in Waterfall methodology, Agile - Scrum and Waterfall-Scrum hybrid environments. Strong understanding & experience in working for regulatory driven projects under AML, KYC, USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act. Proficient in networking with individuals at various levels while organizing, conducting and facilitating requirement elicitation sessions such as survey/questionnaires, interviews, brainstorming, focus group, requirement workshops, document analysis, JAD sessions, Interface analysis, Observation, Reverse engineering. Proficient in preparing wide range of documents including High-Level and Low-Level documents such as Business Requirement Document (BRD), System Requirement Specification (SRS), Use Case specification and RACI matrix (Responsible, Accountable, Consulted and Informed). Well versed in breaking down Epics into User Stories satisfying INVEST criteria in grooming meeting and breaking down User Stories into Tasks satisfying SMART criteria. Experience in conducting Impact analysis, SWOT analysis, Cost Benefit analysis, Root Cause analysis, Feasibility study, Risk analysis and As-Is and To-Be business analysis and drafting reports. Collaborated in creating Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) using MS Project, tracking schedules & milestones. Experience in handling Change Request Management, effectively implemented change by performing both Business Impact Analysis and Technical Impact Analysis of the change in the scope of the project. Experienced in tracing requirements and verifying to Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM). Facilitated discussions for decision making and conflict resolution to ensure good work environment. Experience in building UML diagrams including Use Cases, Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams, Class diagrams, Data Flow Diagrams using MS-VISIO and Smart Draw. Expertise in designing Graphic User Interface (GUI), Wireframes, Mocks-ups using Balsamiq tool. Proficient in writing effective SQL queries in SQL, Oracle databases for business analysis and review. Designed and implemented SQL queries and stored procedures. Used functions like joins, unions, outer joins, group by, order by and aggregate functions to extract data for timely reporting, validation. Co-ordinated with IT architects and assisted in creating current and target state enterprise data architectures. Experienced in Data warehousing and ETL process including OLTP, OLAP, Data marts, ODS, Staging, Data sources, Normalization, Dimension tables. Good knowledge of the Star and Snowflake schema, different OLAP operations such as slice, dice, roll-up, drill down and pivot, facts and fact tables, etc. transformation and validation rules. Involved in Data/Dimensional Modeling; Data mapping, Data integration, Data migration, Data Extraction, Transformation & Loading (ETL). Cultivated experience in working with different web services such as HTML, WSDL, SOAP, UDDI, REST, JSON under various architectures like 3-Tier Architecture and SOA for efficient information transfer and mapping. Experienced in API testing using Postman and SoapUI and REST to check if the APIs are returning the data in JSON, XML format as defined in the API documentation using Swagger and required by workflow. Experienced in Software Test Life Cycle, understanding the manual and automated testing to perform Regression Testing, Black-Box Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT), User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Worked with QA team, involved in Test Planning, Test Preparation, Test Execution, Issue Resolution and Report Generation using HP QC/ALM to assure that all aspects of a Project adhere to Business Requirements. Worked on JIRA for Reporting andused for bug tracking, issue tracking, and project management. Thorough understanding of Business Intelligence (BI) and experience in creating interactive, analytical dashboards using Tableau and IBM Cognos/ Power BI for visualization and decision making. Experienced in ETL tools like Informatica Power center, Data stage, MS SQL Server Integration Services. Used Tableau as a BI tool for generating Analytical Reports required for the project for further analysis. Have excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills, with ability to interact with individuals at all levels and can work as a part of a team as well as independently. TECHNICAL SKILLS SDLC Methodologies: Traditional/Waterfall, Agile/Scrum, SAFE, Waterfall-Scrum Hybrid Business Skills: Change Management, Problem & Incident Management, Impact Analysis, JAD Sessions, SWOT Analysis, Risk Management, Conflict Management. Business Intelligence tools: Tableau, IBM Cognos, Power BI, MS Excel. Business Modeling tools: MS Visio, Balsamiq, Unified Modeling Language (UML) Project management tools: MS Project, MS SharePoint, MS Office 365 online Requirement management tools: JIRA, HP ALM, CA Agile Central (Rally), Confluence, SharePoint Reporting tools: Tableau Desktop, IBM Cognos, QlikView Architecture/Framework: Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), N Tier Architecture, Cloud Platform (SaaS & IaaS), Apache Tomcat Web Server. Testing tools: HP ALM, QTP, Postman, Selenium, Cucumber Databases: MS SQL Server, Oracle, IBM DB2, MS Access. Languages: HTML, CSS, XML, SQL, JavaScript, JSON, SOAP. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Columbus, OH Sr. Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Researched, organized, planned, documented and directed the requirement and analysis phase. Worked with Analysts and other Business Teams to document the required artifacts including BRD, FRD, SRS by using different elicitations techniques including Brainstorming, interviews, Focus groups, JAD sessions and stored the artifacts in Confluence. Performed Document Analysis to understand the AS-IS process and collaborated with the team to design TO-BE process based on the requirements gathered and designed TO-BE process using BPM Tool. Participated in peer review sessions to ensure quality of the requirements before signing off by the business team. Responsible for creating Workflow Charts, Use Case Models, Data Flow Diagrams, Entity Relationship Diagrams using Visio and managed requirements and documentation artifacts using CA Agile Central. Created Use Case Document for the Development and Testing teams to track the activities with the business scenarios. Developed mockups and wireframes using Balsamiq tool. Developed advanced SQL queries using joins, unions, outer joins, group by, order by and aggregate functions to extract data to manipulate and calculate information to fulfill data and reporting requirements including identifying tables and columns from which data is extracted. Created data mapping document for the application after finalizing the attributes and tables with businessusers and communicated dependencies and potential risks. Worked on Data Requirement Analysis and identified the Source Data and assisted ETL Developer in designing ETL process using Informatica Power Center, based on the Data Mapping Documentation. Created logical data interface document by collaborating with systems architect that maps the relationship between original source fields and target destination fields. Also performed Data Profiling and Validations. Coordinated with the Development team in the Code review sessions by improving the overall quality of software. Worked on API documentation using Swagger tool. Analyzed domain specific API’s while conducting the Interface analysis, to interpret the data formats in their WSDL/WADL for a thorough understanding of business requirements and supported integration of compliance REST API’s with Business Rules Engine. Performed API Testing using Postman to check if the APIs are returning the data in JSON, XML format as defined in the API documentation and required by workflow. Worked with Development, QA, and Production Support teams to communicate, verify, and test the desired functionality. Helped the Testing team in creating Test Plans, Test Scenarios, Test Cases and collected Test Data for successful completion of Integration Testing and Functional Testing. Performed Manual testing using, Integration testing, Smoke testing, Sanity testing, System testing, Regression testing, User Acceptance Testing with UAT cases and resolved issues with the users. Participated in preparing the defect management documents and tracking of defects in HP QC ALM. Used Business Process Management tool PEGA for performing the case management functionality. Conducted Data Accuracy Analysis, and support stakeholders for decision-making and used Tableau for report generation of the data to be analyzed for the stakeholders in accordance with the requirements. Environment: SAFe, N-tier Architecture, PEGA, CA Agile Central, HP QC ALM, MS office tools, MS project, MS Visio, Swagger, UML, MS SQL Server, Web Services, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Postman, Tableau, Informatica Power Center, Confluence. Confidential, Charlotte, NC Sr. Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted research work to decide Amazon Web Services (AWS) as Cloud computing solution, along with the Cloud architecture such as Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS). Analyzed the AS-IS and TO-BE processes to understand the key findings, the short-term considerations, the long-term considerations and its benefits. Elicited and documented requirements in Epics, User Stories and Business Use Cases in Rally using techniques like Job Shadowing, Brainstorming, JAD Sessions and Interviewing and resolving open items to a closure. Helped Product Owner break EPICS into User Stories using INVEST Technique and use SMART technique to help Scrum Development Team to break User stories into Sprint Tasks. Conducted business process modeling and analysis, identified, assessed and articulated operational risks. Created UML Diagrams like Use Cases, Activity and Sequence Diagrams using Smart Draw for clear understanding of the vision document. Assisted UI Team to create mockup screens, wireframes to portray the PSPI using Balsamiq tool. Used Rally for maintaining and tracking issues, bugs, user story management, work flow management and creating Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) for transparent requirements traceability. Wrote SQL queries using functions like joins, unions, outer joins, group by, order by and aggregate functions to extract data for timely reporting, validation and created stored procedures. Collaborated with the Quality Assurance team to design and develop Test Strategy, Test Plans, Test Scenarios and Test Cases for performing Functional Testing, Regression Testing in both manual and automation environment and reviewed Test Results for providing sign-off. Involved in User Acceptance Testing scenario drafting, providing support to Business during UAT Testing. Identified and Modified Defects, Issues and Priorities using Rally and captured them into tracking log. Used Cognos for Reporting and to perform analysis on the reports that were generated. Documented User Manual Training Release Notes & Lessons Learnt documents, KT documents and stored it on the SharePoint 2010. Environment: Scrum, MS Project, Rally (CA Agile Central), Cognos, Office 365(Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook), Smart Draw, Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, S3, AWS Lambda), SharePoint 2010, MS SQL Server, Cognos, Balsamiq. Confidential, Pennington, NJ Sr. Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Interviewed Business users, IT SME’s for eliciting requirements using JAD sessions, Interviews, Focus Groups and analyzed the feasibility of the requirements. Documented the requirements into artifacts including BRD, FRD, SRS and stored the documents in SharePoint. Performed GAP and Risk analysis of existing system and evaluated benefits of new system. Conducted Cost Benefit analysis and Impact analysis, Feasibility Analysis, SWOT. Created Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) to keep track of the requirements. Also interacted with the Subject Matter Experts (SME) for better understanding of the process. Created and updated Use Case Scenarios, Data Flow diagrams (DFD's), Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams, and Work flow diagrams using SmartDraw. Created Mock-up Screens and Wireframes using Balsamiq tool. Performed DML (Data Manipulation Language) and SQL operations to Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) the data in the database for data manipulation, data calculations and data analysis. Created SQL scripts and stored procedures for enhancing the performance of the query. Extensively involved in mapping data from various sources to the target database tables. Used API’s to integrate various service providers through RESTful API services. Performed the API documentation using Swagger tool and completed the API testing using SOAP UI tool. Involved in scripting business logic of the webservices and documenting the WSLA document using xml. Performed System Integration testing, Regression testing, Load/Stress testing, and Performance testing by using Selenium tool. Assisted with User Acceptance Testing (UAT), developing and maintaining quality procedures and ensure that appropriate documentation is in place. Performed business analysis and created various reports, charts, dashboards and graphs using QlikView. Environment: Waterfall-Scrum Hybrid, SmartDraw, MS Project, MS SQL server, QlikView, MS Office Suite (MS word, MS Excel, PowerPoint), SOAP UI, SharePoint, Rally, Balsamiq, Selenium, Cucumber. Confidential, North Brunswick, NJ Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Identified and analyzed business data needs using techniques such as JAD Sessions, Document Analysis, Interface analysis, Requirements Workshops with stakeholders and Business users. Documented the requirements in BRD and quantified the functional specifications of the system in the FRD using JIRA. Using RTM, we Tracked, Documented, Captured, Managed and Communicated the Requirements, which helped in maintaining numerous artifacts produced by the teams across the deliverables for a project. Identified/documented data sources and transformation rules required to populate and maintain data warehouse content. Responsible for indexing of the tables in the data warehouse. Created Source to Target Mapping document by validating the source data type, fields and data integrity. Created Conceptual and Logical ER diagrams for the database and developed Conceptual, Logical Data Models. Performed source system analysis, data transformation, loading, validation for data marts, operational data store and data warehouse. Developed the ETL Informatica Mappings for importing data from ODS. Co-ordinated with the data modelers and data architects regarding the architecture and schema (Star schema or snowflake schema). Gathered and analyzed data from enterprise database using various SQL queries like Joins, group by, order by and used Stored Procedures. Worked on API documentation for SOAP, REST using Swagger tool and performed API testing using Postman. Tested the ETL Informatica mappings and other ETL Processes (Data Warehouse Testing). Prepared Test Plans, Test Cases and executed them as part of Functional Testing. Assisted in Integrating various Data Sources (OLTP) to the data warehouse using Informatica as an ETL tool. Configured DWH with SSRS to create effective visualization dashboards and reports. Used SSRS to generate internal reports to study and analyze the current business performance. Performed analysis on enterprise data/report integration & provided functional specification to development team to build Enterprise Reporting Systems. Assisted in presenting reports and analysis to help guide the management. Generated multiple reports, graphs, charts, dashboards for analysis and testing of the EDI conversion using Tableau. Environment: Waterfall, JIRA, MS Visio, MS Office, MS SQL Server, Balsamiq, SOAP, REST, Informatica, Postman, Swagger, Tableau, Confluence, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Confidential Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted interviews with project managers, SME’s, business users to collect requirement and business process information. Created the BRD, FRD, SRS of the business requirements in JIRA. Managed risk-based audits, due diligence and governance of new initiatives and compliance (Anti Money Laundering, SOX, Basel II, GLBA, PCI) programs to migrate risks. Performed GAP Analysis, Risk Analysis, Impact Analysis by identifying existing features and documenting enhancements to meet requirements. Handled Change Request Management, effectively implemented change by performing both Business Impact Analysis and Technical Impact Analysis of the change in the scope of the project. Exclusively used SQL designing, modifying and maintaining the SQL Server Tables, Views and Stored Procedures using MS SQL Server. Assisted the QA team to develop the test plan, test cases and involved in Functional Testing, Regression Testing and User Acceptance Testing (UAT) using Selenium tool. Participated in preparing the defect management documents and tracking of defects in JIRA. Designed Requirements Traceability Matrix to help the stakeholders trace the requirements. Used QlikView for generating Analytical Reports for further analysis of the project. Involved in getting the sign off from the stakeholders and documented the Knowledge Transfer documents. Environment: Waterfall, MS Office Suit, MS Visio, JIRA, QlikView, Rally (CA Agile Central), Selenium, Cucumber, MS SQL Server, Balsamiq, MS Project. Confidential Quality Analyst/ Business Analyst Responsibilities: Elicited clear and thorough business requirements that meet the business scope and objectives. Worked with SME’s, Stakeholders to elicit requirements using techniques like Brainstorming, interviews, Focus groups, JAD sessions. Created the BRD, SRS and stored it on the SharePoint 2010. Designed and documented Test Plans, Test Cases, Test Scenarios, and Test Strategies based on business requirements and Design documents using HP QC tool. Prepared Test Data for positive and negative test scenarios for functional testing as documented in the test plan. Performed System Integration Testing and assisted in User Acceptance testing. Developed automated test process using Quick Test Professional to create reusable scripts for Regression testing. Validated the database using various SQL queries like Joins, group by, order by. Validated the data in the Mainframes iSeries AS400 against the SQL database after the batch processing. Used HP Quality Center to develop Test cases, Test scripts and logging the Defects. Prepared Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) to help the stakeholders trace the requirements. Documented the Bug Report and Categorized them based on severity. Used Quality Center to store all test results and for defect Tracking and Reporting. Provided weekly management status reports and coordinated meetings between test team and development team to review defects and track them to closure. Environment: Waterfall, Microsoft SQL server, HP ALM, iSeries AS400, MS Office (MS Excel, MS Word), QTP, SharePoint 2010. Confidential Quality Analyst Responsibilities: Identified and analyzed the BRD, FRD to understand the business requirements. Designed and documented Test Plans, Test Scenarios, Test Cases based on business requirements and Design documents. Prepared Test Data for positive and negative test scenarios for functional testing as documented in the test plan. Performed System Integration Testing. Performed Regression testing to validate the entire functionality using QTP. Used HP Quality Center to develop Test cases, Test scripts and logged the Defects. Prepared Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM). Used Quality Center to track Test Results and Report defects. Environment: Waterfall, MS SQL server, HP ALM, Quick Test Professional (QTP), MS Office (MS Excel, MS Word) 