SUMMARY Over TWELVE years of Industry experience as a Business System Analyst with solid understanding of Business Requirements Gathering, Evaluating Data Sources, Translating Requirements into Specifications, and Application Design. Proficient in Technical and Business Writing, Business Process Flow, Business Process Modeling, Business Analysis and testing various methodologies. Expertise in Project Management i.e. Project Scoping, Planning, Estimating, Scheduling, Organizing, Directing, Controlling, Budgeting and Drafting Remedy Procedures. Experience in facilitating Joint Requirement Planning (JRP) sessions with Business User Groups, conducting Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions with IT Groups and Conflict Management with Project team members. In depth knowledge Rational Unified Process (RUP) methodology, Use Cases, Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) processes, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOA/D). Competent in Creating Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams. Extensive experience in developing Use Cases, creating Screen Mockups, conducting Gap Analysis and Impact Analysis, SWOT analysis, Cost Benefit Analysis, Risk Analysis. Facilitated Change Management across entire process from Project conceptualization to Testing through Project Delivery, Software Development and Implementation Management in diverse Business and Technical Environments. Knowledge in the ETL (Extract, Transform and Load) of data into a data warehouse/date mart and Business Intelligence (BI) tools like Business Objects Modules (Reporter, Supervisor, Designer, and Web Intelligence). Responsible to Track, Document, Capture, Manage and Communicate the Requirements using Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) which helped in controlling numerous artifacts produced by the teams across the deliverables for a project Involved in Test Planning, Test Preparation, Test Execution, Issue Resolution and Report Generation to assure that all aspects of a Project are in Compliance with the Business Requirements. Proficient in DMAIC Strong experience in conducting User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and documentation of Test Cases. Expertise in designing and developing Test Plans and Test Scripts. Interface with clients from Operations, Marketing, Sales, Technologies, and Outside Vendors and act as their customer interface point as the lead of the Projects. Financial domain expertise with extensive Credit Card application experience. Highly motivated team player with excellent Interpersonal and Customer Relational Skills, Proven Communication, Organizational, Analytical, Presentation Skills, and Leadership Qualities. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages:  C, C++, NET, Java, SQL, PLSQL Operating Systems:  UNIX, Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP, Linux Databases:  MS - Access, MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, Teradata, DB2, Sybase, Hadoop Application Servers:  IBM Websphere, ATG Dynamo, BEA WebLogic Internet:  HTML, XML, VBScript, ASP, JavaScript, JSP, J2EE Automation Tools:  MS Visio, Rational Rose, Rational ClearCase, Rational RequisiteProDocumentum Bug Tracking Tools:  Mercury Test Director, Rational ClearQuest Utility Tools:  MS Office Suite, MS Project, TOAD, Adobe Photoshop Reporting Tools:  Crystal Reports, SQL Server Reports (SSRS) Data Warehousing Tools:  Informatica, Business Objects, Cognos, Erwin Testing Tools:  Quick TestPro (QTP), Test Director, WinRunner, LoadRunner PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Facilitate requirement Elicitations session with the entire project Stakeholders & SME’s. Responsible for Creating & reviewing Business Requirements, Statement of Need, Technical Design (LLD) & participate in Quality Review, Sign Off as per SDLC Standards. Responsible for Requirement Sizing/ Estimation, Impact analysis and capturing it in TFS tool. Actively involved in Defect Resolutions and Production Support activities. Conduct various test activities during the entire test phase, which includes Unit, SIT and UAT. Actively Engage in Co-developing analysis approach, techniques and timeline. Develop new applications as necessary to fulfill Client’s requirements. Use practical knowledge of various software languages, tools and platforms, and apply design specification techniques under the supervision of an experienced team lead. Guide the activities of Confidential /Vendor Programmers and Programmer Analysts (onsite & offshore) throughout the Lifecycle of the Project. Confidential, Phoenix Arizona  Responsibilities: Responsible for Creating & reviewing Project Charter, Scope, Statement of Need & participate in Charter Quality Review, Sign Off in Charter Tollgate. Responsible for Sizing/ Estimation, Project & Resource Forecasting. In Clarity PMP tool. Responsible Data Mapping, SOR identification & Engagements. Responsible for Initiating & Facilitating EDGO Approval for Sourcing SOR as part of Big Data Ingestion process. Actively Engage in Co-developing analysis approach, techniques and timeline. Lead & facilitate requirement Elicitations session with the entire project Stakeholders & SME’s. Responsible for creating & reviewing RUCS, User Stories, Business Process Flows, Use case, Solution Delivery Doc, Impact/Data Matrix and publishing/ securing Sign off as per SDLC compliance needs. Develop new applications as necessary to fulfill Client’s requirements Use practical knowledge of various software languages, tools and platforms, and apply design specification techniques under the supervision of an experienced team lead. Guide the activities of Confidential /Vendor Programmers and Programmer Analysts (onsite & offshore) throughout the Lifecycle of the Project. Environment: Cornerstone 2.0 & 3.0 (Hadoop based Big Data Platform) MS Office, MS Visio, SharePoint, Mercury Quality Centre, Rally, Teradata. Confidential PM/Business Analyst  Responsibilities: Responsible for creating and reviewing Project Charter, Concept reviews, BRD/SON & Impact Matrix as Per SDLC Waterfall methodology. Perform Quality Reviews, Gap analysis and recommend new processes within the Business Engineering team. Confidential IT Business Analyst  Responsibilities: Responsible for creating and reviewing business requirements/ User Stories, functional specification, Project Charter, project schedules compliant as Per Agile Methodology. Creation of L0 & L1 Knowledge Articles. Working on high Priority tickets as part of ITSC team. Lead Client facilitation meetings like PDP sessions to gather business requirements and scrutinized it further during Analyze and design using JADR/ JRP sessions. Created and updated Application level documentation in Team repository. Developed test Plan, test strategy and test cases/conditions to be used for UAT. Confidential, Phoenix, AZ IT Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for creating and reviewing business requirements functional specification, Project Charter, project schedules compliant as Per SDLC Waterfall methodology. Lead Client facilitation meetings like PDP sessions to gather business requirements and scrutinized it further during Analyze and design using JADR/ JRP sessions. Created and updated Application level documentation in Team repository. Created and documented Data mapping docs during analyze and Design phase. As an E2E Test manager, developed test Plan, test strategy and test cases/conditions to be uses for SIT Conducted/ coordinated various test activities during the entire test phase. Created Project Implementation plans based on inputs from various impacted teams and shared it with stakeholders using a Detailed Communication Plan Confidential, Phoenix, AZ PM/ Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for creating and reviewing business requirements/ User Stories, functional specification, Project Charter, project schedules compliant as Per Agile Methodology. Lead Client facilitation meetings like PDP sessions to gather business requirements and scrutinized it further during Analyze and design using JADR/ JRP sessions. Created and updated Application level documentation in Team repository. Created and documented Data mapping docs during analyze and Design phase. Responsible for identifying and documenting Business Rules. Developed test Plan, test strategy and test cases/conditions to be uses for Assembly, SIT and UAT. Conducted/ coordinated various test activities during the entire test phase. Created Project Implementation plans based on inputs from various impacted teams and shared it with stakeholders using a Detailed Communication Plan. Lead and coordinated various install activities from the day of Install till warranty which includes post install Fixes /testing. Confidential, Hartford, CT IT Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Acquire sufficient knowledge about UIS application to perform Production support and Maintenance. To set up plans and procedures to perform maintenance activities conforming to the existing Hartford standards and guidelines. Controlled and monitor Project Scope, Time, Cost, Quality and Risk. Facilitated Requirements Elicitation meetings & documented/ maintained various Requirements deliverables like MRD (Maintenance Requirements Doc) FSD etc. and attain the Required Business/ Tech Sign off. Facilitate Kick-off Meeting, Direct and Execute Approved Plan. Administer Change Management & Report on Project Performance on weekly basis. To maintain the Status of the Trackers/ enhancements Via BPM work flow Tool. Facilitated Monthly Priority meetings with Buss stakeholder to confirm the Business criticality/ Release date for the Trackers/ enhancements identified. Facilitated requirements Walkthrough with Buss, Dev & QA teams. Conduct Weekly Status call with Diva & QA to mitigate any risk/ issues during Design Build & test Phase. Assist the QA team in creating various Test Deliverables like Test Strategy. Test Plan & test cases. Coordinate SIT & BAT testing with QA & Buss and attain the desired sign off for the release. Document lessons learned. Confidential, Hartford, CT  IT Business Analyst Responsibilities: Created the Project Presentation deck and facilitated the Kick Off meeting. Responsible for reviewing the Project Charter and getting Sign off from different Impacted Business Groups. Responsible for facilitation Requirement Elicitation sessions with different Marketing groups like PI, Other Marketing & Select to gather High level Business Need / Requirements, Captured the different Email Marketing processes within Confidential in Swim lanes format. Created the Existing & Proposed Email Preferences Set up process for Confidential Agents. Created Use Cases, Screen Mockups/Wireframes for the new page hosted by Confidential . Created Functional requirements and facilitated Architectural approach discussion. (JAD/JRP). Involved in Project Estimation activities. Created and documented Data Mapping docs (S2T). Created Requirement traceability matrix for Analyze phase. Created Project Implementation plans based on inputs from various impacted teams and shared it with stakeholders using a Detailed Communication Plan Lead and coordinated various install activities from the day of Install till warranty which includes post install Fixes /testing. Confidential, Hartford, CT IT Business Analyst  Responsibilities: Responsible for creating and reviewing Project Scope, business Needs, functional specification, Project Charter & SAD. Assisted HIG tech team in POC (Proof of Concept) Connectivity testing with integrating vendor services. Went beyond BA roles, as per the Project/ Client needs & performed Data validation with Integrating Vendor services. Conducted Data Analysis for the existing services (HIG internal & Vendor) and came up with a comprehensive Analysis report containing Pros/ Cons & suggestions for HIG Business. Facilitated meetings with Vendor partners like Marshal Swift & Bouch, Lexis Nexis to resolve Data/ Technical issues. Developed Use Cases. Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams using Visio. Created and documented Data Mapping docs during analyze and Design phase. Being as an impacted team provided Subject Matter expertise on existing IM services. Assist the QA personnel in the creation of Test Strategy, Test Plan, & test conditions/cases. Confidential, Atlanta, GA Business Analyst Responsibilities: Facilitated & documented Requirements gathering session with Business & Domain SME. Wrote Business Requirements based on the process Flows provided by business. Responsible for creating & publishing BRD documents for Sign Off. Confidential, Phoenix, AZ Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for creating and reviewing business requirements, functional specification, Project Charter, project schedules. Lead Client facilitation meetings like PDP sessions to gather business requirements and scrutinized it further during Analyze and design using JADR/ JRP sessions. Created and updated Application level documentation in Team repository. Developed Use Cases. Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams using Visio. Created and documented Data Mapping docs during analyze and Design phase. Being as an Impacted team provided Subject Matter expertise on MR Domain. Defined and documented business Process flow in Swim Lanes format. Created and Updated Requirement traceability matrix during different phase of the project. Established RUP (Rational Unified Process) methodology and provided assistance in and project plans. Responsible for identifying and documenting Business Rules. Developed test Plan, test strategy and test cases/conditions to be uses for Assembly, SIT and UAT. Successfully conducted JAD sessions, which helped synchronize different stakeholders on their objectives and helped the developers to have a clear-cut picture of the application to be developed. Conducted/ coordinated various test activities during the entire test phase. Created Project Implementation plans based on inputs from various impacted teams and shared it with stakeholders using a Detailed Communication Plan Lead and coordinated various install activities from the day of Install till warranty which includes post install Fixes /testing. Confidential, Boston, MA Sr. Business/ Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Drive the completion and complete alignment of system design from business requirements and architectural design. Track, drive and coordinate program development activities, per requirements and design, with Business owners, IT PMO, and IT Development teams across US and EMEA. Gathered business requirements, performed Gap Analysis for client’s requirements and generated system workflows. Identify and analyze the key Performance Indictors (KPIs) of Client organization and recommend steps to achieve the business goals and objectives. Systematically gained knowledge on the business process being followed in the project environment. Prepared and validated high-level and detailed requirements. Established RUP (Rational Unified Process) methodology and provided assistance in developing Use cases and project plans. Used BEA (BPM Tool) to map Process flows and migrated Visio Process flows into BEA Tool. Successfully conducted JAD sessions, which helped synchronize different stakeholders on their objectives and helped the developers to have a clear-cut picture of the application to be developed. Participated in documenting the requirements those were critical to the business process and used those requirements in system design based on a Use Cases, Use Case Diagrams and Activity Diagrams. Used Rational Rose to model the process using UML to create behavioral and structural diagrams. Used Rational Clear Quest to track required changes and Rational Clear Case to maintain different versions of the project documentation. Assist the QA personnel in the creation of Test Cases using Rational Test Manager. Clarified QA team issues and reviewed test plans and test scripts developed by QA team to make sure that all requirements will be covered in scripts and tested properly. Organized meetings to discuss outstanding issues with QA and developers. Used Test Director, Oracle PL/SQL for testing the application. Participated in the development of the data modeling methodology to be used in the project. Implemented Data Modeling standards, including element-naming conventions. Analyzed trading partner specifications and created EDI mapping guidelines Develop and maintain sales reporting using in MS Excel queries, SQL in Teradata, and MS Access. Produce performance reports and implement changes for improved reporting. Interface with internal customers. Provide ad-hoc reporting and analysis from data sources including PeopleSoft (SET) and Teradata. Loaded an EDI file in convert-to-xml. Visually inspected application control codes and the layout of an Electronic Data Interchange. Documented Requirements for Management Reporting out of Clear Quest using Crystal Reports. Create Edit, and proof content written and Update User manuals. Created Technical specifications for the Business Objects Reporting Applications. Addressed & documented all problems and issues, to resolve them with developers, testers and end users. Used Quality Center/Test Director for requirement management, test planning, scheduling, executing test cases, managing and tracking defects. Managed the whole testing process using Mercury Interactive Test Management Tool Quality Center. Involved in testing the Business Objects Reports as a part of Unit Testing. Developed templates, procedures, design documents including Database Structure and Created/maintained Data Dictionary. Environment: MS Office, MS Visio, Sharepoint, Rational Requisite Pro, Rational Rose, Rational Clear Case, Rational Clear Quest, Quality Centre, RUP Methodology, Oracle PL/SQL, SQL, SQL Server 2005, EDI, BEA Aqua, Logic, Business Objects 6.5, DB2 Confidential, Troy MI Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Was responsible for creating and reviewing business requirements, functional specifications, project schedules, documentation and test plans. Lead client facilitation meetings to gather requirements (Inception phase), there after assisted tech leads in Analysis & Design using UML & Rational Unified Process. Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, using Visio. Identify research, investigate, analyze, define and document business processes. Assist with user testing of systems, developing and maintaining quality procedures, and ensuring that appropriate documentation is in place. Responsible for identifying and documenting business rules and creating detailed Use Case. Conduct User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Develop the test plan, test conditions and test cases to be used in testing based on business requirements, technical specifications and/or product knowledge. Worked with production staff to identify and map detailed current processes, identify gaps and failure points, perform root cause analysis and develop functional requirements that supported overall strategy, goals and objectives. Acted as a liaison between the technical staff and the users (staff and management). Also was responsible for communications between Project Team and other related departments. Coordinated mentoring of various tools and process flow of the application. Involved in developing test strategy and helped in developing QA Test Plans for Functional, Integration, regression and System testing. Created Automation Procedure Template and used them for writing automation procedures. Environment: Win Runner 7.6, QTP 8.0.1/8.2, Mercury Quality Center, Test Director, MS Visio, UML, J2EE 1.3, JSP, JSF, JDBC 3.0, HTTP 1.1 Load Runner, XML/SOAP, UNIX and Windows Xp Confidential, McLean VA Sr. Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Established a RUP (Rational Unified Process) centric business analysis methodology. Collaborated in building a business analysis process model using Rational Rose, RequisitePro, and Visio. Provided key initiatives in working with users in defining project and system requirements. Provided inputs in the strategic development of detailed project plans, work assignments, target dates etc. Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, OOD using UML Performed requirement analysis, went through all the use cases and issue logs. Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to prepare a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products, and process’ and revenue streams aimed towards problem solving. Delivered requirements for integrating bank balance and transaction, previous day and current day information reporting, for ACH, Wires, Memos, Returns, Loans, Controlled Disbursements, Lockbox, and Data Exchange. Done OOAD and coding of class hierarchy representing Work Flows and GUI screens used by credit card processing. Responsible for conversion programming of new business clients onto the FDR credit card processing system Created Web interface for state auditing application utilizing Cold Fusion technology built on existing Teradata data warehouse system Proactively researched and corrected EDI (821, 996,997) errors finding permanent solutions to reoccurring errors whenever possible to save time and resources. Worked on several mainframe based applications running on an AS/400 platform Functioned as the primary liaison between the business line, operations, and the technical areas throughout the project cycle. Worked with ODS and OLAP system. Worked with Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading. Metadata architecture was also provided, for the purposes of query enhancement and clarification of data relationships. Also built the foundation for process implementation in MS-SQL. Reviewed and provided input to the testing scenarios and test cases. Designed DataStage ETL jobs for extracting data from heterogeneous source systems, transform and finally load into the Data Marts. Identified/documented data sources and transformation rules required to populate and maintain data warehouse content. Setup, mapping, analyze, and monitor the business flow + EDI (996&997) requirements Used Cognos BI for operational reporting. Reviewed Stored Procedures for reports and wrote test queries against the source system (SQL Server) to match the results with the actual report against the Data mart (Oracle). Partnered with the technical areas in the research and resolution of system and process problems especially related to Power Builder platform. Played a key role in the planning, testing, and implementation of system enhancements and conversions Created documentation using MS Office suite including Visio for swim lanes and data flows, and PowerPoint for presentations Was responsible for indexing of the tables in that data warehouse. Performed file analyzing on enterprise data/report integration & provided functional specification to development team to build Enterprise Reporting Systems. Guided development team in the Oracle 9i based database. Assisted in presenting reports and analysis to help guide the management. Organized cross training of team members and users to become more responsive. Assisted in development of training materials for new technology and process improvements Environment: Windows, MS Office (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Visio), ETL, .Net, Oracle, Crystal reports, IBM Mainframes, CognosBI, RUP, UML, SQL, SWOT analysis, File Analysis, GAP Analysis, Win Runner 