SUMMARY Over 5 years of experience as a Confidential & Confidential Business Analyst with strong analytical, coordinating, organizational and interpersonal skills to work in diverse work environment with proven experience in utilizing people and process knowledge to help enterprise make critical decisions. Collaborated with IT project managers, software developers, and business owners (stakeholders) to determine project scope, vision, and outcomes, for IT projects of all sizes. In depth Knowledge of Business Analysis Body of Knowledge (BABOK) or Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) principles. Assisted with the interpretation of user requirements into feasible options and communicating these backs to business stakeholders. Expertise in Business Modeling and UML Diagrams (Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, State Diagrams), wireframes, screen mock ups using MS Visio. Experience in Feasibility Studies, Cost - Benefit Analysis, Gap Analysis, SWOT Analysis to check the compatibility of the existing system infrastructure with new Business Requirements. Excellent Business writing skills in writing Business Requirements Document (BRD), Use Case Specifications, Functional Specifications (FSD). Created workflow & flowchart diagramming, desirable experience with Business Process Modeling Notation (BPMN) diagramming. Experience in developing detailed functional specs through JAD sessions, interviews, on site meetings with business users & development team. Good knowledge of writing SQL queries for reporting purposes. Assisted QA team in writing test plans, defining test cases, test scenario and Black Box testing. Excellent computer skills and proficient in Excel, Word, PowerPoint and Outlook Applied project management skills to develop work plans and manage and track progress, resources, timelines, and issues for the on-time and on-budget delivery of small system enhancements. Assisted project managers with deliverables, project management tasks, and issue identification and remediation, as needed. In conjunction with Quality Assurance Analysts, assist with Quality Assurance (QA) activity as necessary. Expertise in conducting and participating different types of testing such as Integration, System, Functional, GUI, Regression, Sanity, Smoke and User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Excellent Communication and presentation skills. Strong experience in working with Agile Scrum development and Devops. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Columbus, OH Business Analyst Responsibilities: Worked on transitioning current DC-Direct to RPLink. Communicated efficiently with multifariousstakeholders for Requirement Gathering, plan/RACI matrix, managing Change Requests, performing Impact, Risk and GAP Analysis. Documented the development methods and technologies including web services (REST API) and Web APIs/Application Layer. Documented user stories and modelled use case diagrams by utilizing MS Visio. Analyzing legacy DC direct system & Sub systems; and leveraging the business features that already exist within public & Private sector to combine the business functions into one technology suite. Requirement analysis activities for a large team for re-plat forming retirement business requirements to new RP link system, along with descriptive & diagnostic data analytics requirements to improve data quality. Mockup Creation, modeling the workflow in a story map for user acceptance and user story creation for development efforts. Maintained all the tasks in JIRA and updated status regular basis Created a detailed User Acceptance Testing strategy to ensure complex functionalities are tested thoroughly by business users. Involved in back end testing using SQL Queries on Microsoft SQL Server. Communicated with off-shore team and worked beyond the working hours to ensure all are on same page. Worked on variousMicrosoft tools such as Visio, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Publisherfor creating business processes workflow. Document the UAT Test Plan using MS Word and Quality Center. Assisted with user acceptance test (UAT) of the system, developing and maintaining quality procedures, and ensuring that appropriate documentation is in place. Used Microsoft SharePoint for document management & as a common repository for project documents & deliverables. Created story cards, Epics, technical cards using RTC and assign points for the line to use during iteration. Established links between RRC and RTC to maintain traceability. Worked on Go-To-Market project which is in high demand with tight deadline. Gathering the requirements for enhancements of annuity products and scoping the solutions for order entry platforms such as AN4, Firelight and Affirm and also worked on projects for DTTC feeds. Initiated and participated in Retrospective, Sprint planning (IPM) and IPM planning meetings. Agile development environment. Environment: Kanban, Agile, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Access, Visio, SharePoint, SQL, JIRA, RTC,RRC, Taskboard, Ad-hoc Testing, Manual Testing. Business Analyst Confidential, Chicago, IL Responsibilities: Worked with the users and different teams involved in the application development for the better understanding of the business and IT processes. Conducted regular JAD sessions with the stakeholder, SMEs, system architects, developers, database developers, quality testers during the entire project to assure that the critical as well as the minute details of the project were discussed and issues were resolved beforehand. Worked with client to determine user requirements and goals at requirement elicitation stage using Agile Methodology. Wrote Backlogs, User Stories, Tasks, Bugs using Jira and uploaded documents in Confluence. Analyzed business requirements and created use cases to assist the development and QA/UAT team in design and testing. Designed and developed Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Use Cases and other Process Flow Models using Visio. Coordinated data profiling/data mapping with business subject matter experts (SMEs), data architects, ETL developers, and data modelers. Developed and maintained sales reporting using in MS Excel queries, SQL and MS Access. Used MS Office suite (Word, Excel, Access, Visio, Power Point), for project tracking, documentation and presentation. Worked with the QA team for designing Test Plan and Test Cases for the User Acceptance testing (UAT) Environment: Agile Methodology, MS Word, MS Excel, Visio, SharePoint, SQL,JIRA, UAT testing, MS Access. BA Confidential  Responsibilities: Designed, reviewed and analyzed the Requirement and Test Plan, developed efficient, highly maintainable and reusable strategy to support multiple projects. Provided a written/verbal escalation of project status, resources and schedule issue as required to upper Management. After requirement gathering I was involved in writing test cases and test scripts . Excel expert in collecting, organizing, and documented infrastructure project attributes, data, and project metrics. Processed data load requests, manually entered data, reconciled data conflicts, and created data extracts and reports using Excel. Performed data manipulation, transformation, and cleansing using Excel. Conducted the demo for the POs and PMs at the end of each sprint, gather their feedback on the product, and implement the same in the upcoming sprints. Coordinated with Functional Team to identify Test cases that are candidates for Automation. Translated high-level functional requirement into system requirements. Responsible for documenting application related errors, Bugs, status reports which were presented in weekly meetings in Rally. Performed backend testing of the system by writing and executing SQL queries. Created user mockups and use case diagrams with narratives Provided input to handle US Market specific requirements. Participated in all SCRUM ceremonies such as Daily Scrum, Retrospective, Planning, and Reviews. Environment: Agile Methodology, Test Cases, Test Planning, Rally, SQL 