SUMMARY: Result - oriented professional with 5 years of Dot Net development experience. Possess practical knowledge of Database, Business Logic and UI Design. Strong focus on delivering end-to-end solutions which prove valuable to customers. Quick learner with a great passion to work on new and exciting technologies. Very good presentation and communication skills. Self-motivated and effective team player. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Languages:  C#.Net, Java Web:  ASP.Net, AngularJs, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3 Databases:  MS-SQL, Oracle Control System:  TFS, GitHub Tools: .Net Visual Studio, MSSQL Server 2012 Reporting:  Crystal Report Frameworks:  Entity, Ado.Net, WCF, LINQ, MVC, Web API, Asp net core. MVC Web services:  REST, SOAP Web Servers:  IIS, Apache, Glassfish PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential  Asp.Net Developer Responsibilities: Experience with Visual Studio Team Services Working knowledge of VS2013 with Azure experience developing with Microsoft ASP.Net 3.5 and up Implemented ASMX web service endpoints to handle CRUD operations on resources. Experience with Client UI tools like JQuery, Bootstrap Designed and implemented MVC Controllers to handle the HTTP requests from the browser. Implemented request handlers to perform the business logic and form validations. Implemented several feature enhancements on the application as per the user requirements. Built data connection to the database using Entity Framework, LINQ and ADO.Net. Actively monitor and maintain system transaction Developed multiple enterprise application using C#, MVC, SOAP, REST, and MSSQL. Experience with Entity Framework Confidential  .Net Application Developer Responsibilities: Redesigned and developed new features on the internal enterprise applications. Experience with Visual Studio Team Services Working knowledge of VS2013 with Azure experience developing with Microsoft ASP.Net 3.5 and up Implemented ASMX web service endpoints to handle CRUD operations on resources. Experience with Client UI tools like JQuery, Bootstrap Designed and implemented MVC Controllers to handle the HTTP requests from the browser. Implemented request handlers to perform the business logic and form validations. Implemented several feature enhancements on the application as per the user requirements. Built data connection to the database using Entity Framework, LINQ and ADO.Net. Actively monitor and maintain system transaction Developed multiple enterprise application using C#, MVC, SOAP, REST, and MSSQL. Experience with Entity Framework Implemented AJAX-based functionality using jQuery library to request transaction update and dynamic page content rendering by invoking the REST endpoints. Implemented 3-tier and MVC architecture for Separation of Concern & Open-Close design principle. Involved in bug fixing and resolving issues with the QA. Confidential  Web Developer Responsibilities: Developed CMS for different websites and applications using well-structured stored procedure. Made use of CSS to standardize the look-and-feel of the HTML elements. Used JS & jQuery to implement the client-side web page/form behaviors Implemented Partial Page Submission. Integrated google map API to enable location services for user request. Designed and implemented tables, functions, stored procedures and triggers in SQL Server 2012. Made use of MVC architecture to define the various components of the system. Managed the department and developed small desktop and web-based applications for in house use. Used 3-layer architecture and ADO.Net framework. Developed application in .Net WinForm & WebForm. Mining problems from manual system and develop a software application that best suits the situation. Used MSSQL Server 2005 for to manage the DB schema and define SQL’s used by the application.