SUMMARY Having 8+ years of professional experience as a Business Analyst with a strong understanding of Business Analysis, System Analysis, Business Process Management, Order management, and Business Process Modelling. Strong understanding and experience in Data Analysis, Data Warehouse and with a solid understanding of Business Requirement Gathering, Business Process Flow, Business Process Modelling, Business Process Re - Engineering, Data Analysis, Data Mapping, Data Modelling Expertise in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies such as RUP, Agile (SCRUM, KANBAN)/ Waterfall / Spiral methodologies with hands-on experience in all of them. Experience in Business Requirements gathering and writing skills with expertise in developing and documenting Business Requirement document (BRD), Functional Requirement Document (FRD), and Software Requirement Specification (SRS) across the deliverables of a project. Extensive knowledge of the E-commerce Retail Sales lifecycle and the Retail E-commerce ecosystem, OMS, WMS, Fulfilment, TMS, and Support. Extensive experience in developing Use Cases, creating Screen Mock-ups, conducting Gap Analysis and Impact Analysis, SWOT analysis, Cost-Benefit Analysis, and Risk Analysis. Strong Work experience inE-commerce portals web application developments, B2B, B2C, Content Management Systems for E-commerce like ATG and IBM WebSphere Commerce. Experience working with Content Management Systems (CMS), Order Management System (OMS) Supply Chain Management and UX teams. Expertise and hands-on experience in SQL and RDBMS for Analysis, Reporting and testing purpose. Seasoned Business Analyst with outstanding knowledge on different domains like Healthcare, Retail, ecommerce, Pharma, Finance, insurance with ERP and CRM. Comprehensive experience in managing small, large and complex projects for mobile and web development projects; implementation.upgrades and support. Used Rational Clear Quest for tracking and prioritizing defects and for enhancements after baselining the requirements. Good experience in developing Test Plans, Test Strategies, Test Scenarios, Test cases by reviewing Business and Software Requirement specifications and creating Gap Analysis for test purpose. Experience in writing and executing SQL Queries for Databases such as Teradata, Oracle, and MySQL. Experience in the Informatica, MSBI/ ETL (Extract, Transform and Load) of data into a data warehouse/data mart and Business Intelligence (BI) tools like Business Objects Modules (Reporter, Supervisor, Designer, and Web Intelligence) Expertise in translating Business needs into end-user reports with Business Intelligence Tools like Tableau, Power BI. Proven strength in problem-solving, system analysis and strong analytical and product management. Expertise with supply chain strategies/vendor manufacturing process methods to determine the level of procurement and strategic sourcing strategies/plans and worked with vendors/peers to determine lead times, schedules and cycle counts, established requirements needs. TECHNICAL SKILLS Business Modeling Tools: Rational Suite (Requisite Pro, Rose, Clear Quest, Clear Case), MS Visio, MS Project, MS Access, MS Office Suite, Visual Paradigm, Business Object (Crystal Reports) Business Skills: Business Definition Requirements, Business Process Analysis, Gap Analysis, Use Case Modeling & Analysis, Business Environment, and Market Research Analysis Defect Tracking Tools: Rational Clear Quest, Quality Center Databases: Oracle (11g/12C,10g), SQL Server, MS Access,SQL, PL/SQL Content Management Tools: Drupal, PVCS, Rational Clear Case, Documentum, SharePoint, Interwoven. Tools: MS PROJECT, SQL, HTML, SharePoint, MS Office Data Warehousing: Data Marts, OLTP, OLAP, ROLAP, MOLAP, Oracle, Query/Reporting, Multidimensional Analysis BI/ETL Tools: Informatica, SSIS, OBIEE 11g,Informatica Power Center, SQL * Loader Operating System: Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac, Solaris. Documents & Processes: SRS, Use Cases, UML diagrams, FRS, UAT, Test plans & cases, Business Process Modelling, Project Planning & tracking PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Naperville, IL Business Analyst/ Data Analyst Responsibilities: Worked collaboratively with all participants in software development project to design and develop the logical and physical data models to support the Data Marts and the Data Warehouse. Conducted brainstorming and JAD sessions with stakeholders and end-users for requirement analysis and documented the same. Designed high level ETL architecture for overall data transfer from the source server to the Enterprise Services Warehouse which encompasses server name, database name, accounts, tables and direction of data flow, Column Mapping and Metadata. Involved in planning the methodology using Data Integration Framework and developed data requirements documentation for Enterprise Data Warehouse project. Performed Data mapping from source to DWH to DataMart's, logical data Modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data. Created insightful automated dashboards and data visualizations to track key business metrics in SSRS, Power BI and MS Excel. Involved in business process re-engineering, including gathering and documenting requirements, documenting workflows and developing specifications for the programmers using Rational Rose. Conducted feasibility study and performed scope analysis for the proposed enhancements and made recommendations to the business users using Rational Clear Case. Analyzed and evaluated the enterprise e -commerce solutions and derived the feasibility of porting these solutions on different mobile phone platforms (iPhone, Android, Windows etc.). Integrated the reporting services with the ecommerce application by webservices implementations to analyze the trends of products and customers base to perform business insights. Involved in designing the Java based application on order management, shipping, invoicing, return, and tax calculations modules. Coordinated with offshore team and other business and technical teams on assigned project deliverables. Worked closely with other Retail departments (Procurement, Design, Purchasing, Warehouse, Marketing, and Customer Service) to fetch the data requirements and loaded into DataMart. Created Gantt charts and project chartersand followed the Software Development Life Cycle SDLC methodology to complete projects on time and within budget. Assisted in designing test plans, test scenarios and test cases for integration, regression and user acceptance testing. Environment: MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Outlook, MS Project, MS Visio, MS SharePoint, Rally/ TFS. Confidential, Atlanta Business Analyst Responsibilities: Collaborated with the stakeholder and performed the requirement gathering through conducting workshops, interviews, JAD sessions, research and identified the business process for the implementations. Translated the business requirement into the functional and nonfunctional requirement documents and system requirement specification documents. Designed and developed Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, OOD (Object oriented Design) using Rational Rose and MS Visio. Designed the Data Warehousing ETL procedures for extracting the data from all source systems to the target system. Designs and develops the logical and physical data models to support the Data Marts and the Data Warehouse. Involved in business process re-engineering, including gathering and documenting requirements, documenting workflows and developing specifications for the programmers. Liaison with the business and understand technical/functional requirements. Performed Data Profiling of the current state of data in the Data Warehouse by doing Data Analysis using SQL Queries and MicrosoftExcel, finding Gaps in Data and formulating solutions for the same. Analyzed HIPAA 5010 related to 837(Claim),835(Payment & Remittance), 270,271(Eligibility Enquiry response), 275 (Patient info),276 and 277(Claim Status Enquiry & Response) transactions and performed GapAnalysis between the 4010 and 5010 to improve and implement enterprise solutions to ensure compliance. Implemented the entire Rational Unified Process (RUP) Methodology of application development with its various workflows, artifacts, and activities. Worked on HIPAA claim master integrated with the Microsoft SQL server utility to process the data from the data ware house. Experience with advanced analytics utilizing healthcare payor data (health insurance/claims/Medicare). Assisted with the implementation and day-to-day administration of the HIPAA privacy compliance program. Good Understanding of clinical practice management, medical and laboratory billing and insurance claim with processing with process flow diagrams. Created reports from SAP modules using Business Objects / Crystal Reports based on business requirements. Worked with ETL QA team to plan and create complete test cases, test plans, test data, and reporting statusto ensure all the business requirements are successfully tested. Environment: Rational Suite (Rose, Requisite Pro), Rational Unified Process (RUP),HIPAA, ETL, Informatica, Rally, Jira, Agile, Windows XP/2000, Oracle, PL/SQL, MySQL, MS-Project, MS-Office Suite, MS Visio, MS Word, MS Excel. Confidential, Bentonville, Arkansas Business Analyst Responsibilities: Led the effort in drafting, reviewing and approval of SDLC artifacts like BRD, FRD, SRS and assisting during the development phase. Authored use cases, test cases, also tracked and maintained Stakeholder enhancement requests. Elicited the requirement through interviewing, open ended discussions, brainstorming and JAD session for the implementation of Mobile Application on cloud-based platform and to determine current 'As-Is'and ‘To-be’business processes. Prepared the risk and feasibility analysis using inputs from the Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) and presented to the Business and IT teams. Prepared UML Diagrams like Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams for the requirements, also prepared Business Process Model for the complete application systems. Followed Agile methodologies and Implemented Scrum with Jira to track the progress of project and involved in creating Product Backlogs, EPICs and User Stories. Facilitated scrum meetings like daily stand up meeting, sprint review meetings and retrospective meeting to analyze the mitigate the roadblocks in the project. Worked with different Business expert for identifying business processes improvements for service centers, manufacturing plant, and quality, sales, purchasing, shipping, and engineering department using UML and BPMN tools. Used JIRA to plan, track and report issues and tasks on a predefined workflow. \Coordinated with the lead Business Analysts to drive the requirements and change requests in the Salesforce.com CRM customization. Facilitated workshops between business stakeholders and offshore developers to modify Salesforce.com CRM platform to conform to Best Practices and to improve performance. Responsible for performing administrative functions in Salesforce CRM such as create/modify pick lists and lookup fields, periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflow, campaign management. Responsible to create role based and profile-based security level access set up for SFDC CRM application. Generated test scenarios, test cases and test data for SIT, UAT test cycles. Executed tests, created problem reports. Conducted periodic Software quality assurance meetings to generate the test metrics. Created and maintained technical documentation using defined technical documentation templates that meet SDLC standards. Environment: Agile, Mock up screens, Visual Studio, SQL, HTML, Rational Doors, Salesforce CRM, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Salesforce CPQ, APEX Data Loader, Force.com, ANSI SQL, T-SQL, JIRA, MS Office suite (Excel, PowerPoint, Visio), Java, Team Foundation Server, Scrum, HP-ALM. Confidential, New Brunswick, NJ Business Analyst - Scrum Master Responsibilities: Worked throughout the SDLC, which included requirements, specifications, design, analysis and testing utilizing AGILE methodology. Facilitated Scrum related meetings, Sprint planning, Daily Scrum, Pre-Grooming, Grooming, Sprint Review, and Retrospective sessions and coach development team to utilize Agile methodology (Scrum). Worked with Product owner in prioritizing, developing strategy, and reporting out progress of all sprints within the transformation project. Implemented Scrum with JIRA to track the progress of project and involved in creating Product Backlogs, EPICs and User Stories. Develop UML diagrams like Use Cases and Use case Narrative, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and collaborations diagram using MS VISIO 2010. Scrum key activities - conducted scrum meetings, Backlog grooming, story jam, story mapping, iteration planning, release planning, daily standup, retrospectives, and iteration demos. Worked with the technical team in the development of new risk management computation system in compliance with the Basel II accord. Scoping and designing the new Compliance system including Sanctions, and KYC processes. Built financial models for clients by collecting, monitoring and studying data, generating financial variance and action reports and making clear and targeted recommendations. Created Ad- hoc reports and presentations for managers. Prepared Business Process Models that includes Modeling of all the activities of business from conceptual to procedural level. Determined the team capacity (velocity) from historical data. Created Work Break down structure (user stories) and corresponding activities (tasks). Prepared bi-weekly project status reports and coordinated work plan between client project manager and business stakeholders. Prepared Test Reports and submitted the Bug Findings to the Bug Tracking system using Quality Center and its modules (Requirements, Test plan, Test lab,and Defects) Environment: Rational Rose, OBIEE 11g, Informatica, Rational Requisite Pro, Clear Quest, VB, Java Scripts, .Net framework, MS Project 2010, MS-Visio 2010, MS-Office 2010, HTML, XML, Active Server Pages, Erwin 7.1, MS Share point, Test Director 7.1, Cognos. Confidential Business/ Data Analyst Responsibilities: Created new reports based on requirements. Designed the business requirement collection approach based on the project scope and SDLC methodology. Documented business requirements with wireframes and mockups to explain in detail the business implications and impacts. Created Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Dataflow Diagrams in MS Visio. Prepared functional requirements to define the system rules by creating Use Cases, Interface design and data dictionaries. Worked in Clinical trial system(CFR Part 11 validated and RegulatedSystem);an application used to collect the patient data. Automated and scheduled recurring reporting processes using UNIX shell scripting and Teradata utilities such as MLOAD, BTEQ, and Fast Load Worked with architects and, assisting in the development of current and target state enterprise-level data architectures Worked with project team representatives to ensure that logical and physical data models were developed in line with corporate standards and guidelines. Involved in defining the source to target data mappings, business rules, and data definitions. Performed data analysis and data profiling using complex SQL on various sources systems including Oracle and Teradata. Migrated three critical reporting systems to Business Objects and Web Intelligence on a Teradata platform Created Excel charts and pivot tables for the Ad-hoc data pull. Environment: MS Office Suite, MS Visio, MS SharePoint, Test Management Tool, MS Project, Crystal report, HTML. Confidential System Analyst Responsibilities: Processed data received from vendors and loading them into the database. The process was carried out on weekly basis and reports were delivered on a bi-weekly basis. The extracted data had to be checked for integrity. Documented requirements and obtained signoffs for the business owner or stakeholders. Generated weekly, bi-weekly reports to be sent to client business team using business objects and documented them also for data cleansing and data profiling. Used SQL for querying and analysis purposes on various source tables and conditions applied and wrote SQL joins, sub queries. Used SQL Server Reporting Services SSRS to schedule reports to be generated on predetermined time. Helped the testing team in creating the test plans and test scripts. Assisted the users in UAT testing by providing test scenarios and test data in development, QA and production. Environment: SQL,OBIEE,SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, data profiling, data loading,QA team. 