SUMMARY: Accomplished Business Analyst with 7+ years in achieving operational efficiency and increasing revenue in the financial services, health care and managed care industries with good knowledge in requirement gathering, Medical and Rx Health - care claims including PBM Transactions, EDI Transactions, problem solving and delivery managementApplying strong interpersonal communications skills, including teamwork, and building customer relationships. Business process improvement, data analysis and IT asset management and exposure to change management, and maintenance projects. Business Analyst with diverse experience in Information Technology with focus on Business Analysis, Business Modeling, Requirement Gathering, Technical Documentation, EDI and PBM Transactions and Health-care claims analysis. Domain experience in which include multiple development, support and re-design, starting from fit gap analysis requirement gathering, and impact analysis till go-live, both banking and Health-care domain. Rich experience in gathering (user) functional requirements using various requirements modeling and UML tools including Rational Rose, Rational clear case and MS Visio. Proficient in Technical and Business Writing, Business Process Flow, Business Process Modeling, Business Analysis and Testing various methodologies. Knowledge of 837, 835 10 and ICD-9/ICD-10. Experience in developing test cases, coordinating UAT sessions with SME's, QA's and test specialists. Experience in Data Analysis, Data Mapping and good understanding of RDBMS concepts. Adept at writing SQL queries for conducting data analysis Experience in Joint Requirement Planning (JRP) sessions with Business User Groups, conducting Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions with IT Groups and Conflict Management with Project team members. Experience operating within Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Waterfall and Agile Methodologies. knowledge of UML diagrams - Use case diagrams, User Stories and Activity diagrams Extensive experience in developing Use Cases, creating Screen Mock-ups, conducting Gap Analysis and Impact Analysis, SWOT analysis, Cost Benefit Analysis, Risk Analysis. Facilitated Change Management across entire process from Project conceptualization to Testing through Project Delivery, Software Development and Implementation Management in diverse Business and Technical Experienced in understanding current (AS-IS) state and desired (TO-BE) business processes and converting them into technical specifications for preparing test plans Responsible to Track, Document, Capture, Manage and Communicate the Requirements using Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) which helped in controlling numerous artifacts produced by the teams across the deliverables for a project Involved in Test Planning, Test Preparation, Test Execution, Issue Resolution and Report Generation to assure that all aspects of a Project are in Compliance with the Business Requirements. Possess excellent communication, people skills, project management competency, and the ability to successfully influence and drive consensus across cross-functional teams TECHNICAL SKILLS: Operating systems: Win 2000/XP windows 7,8,10 Methodologies: Waterfall, RUP, Agile Microsoft Office Suite: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, SharePoint Req Management Tools: Rational Requisite Pro, JIRA, MS project Modeling Tools: MS Visio & Rational Rose. Data Visualization: Tableau 8.1/7.1, Cognos, Business Objects Databases: Oracle, MS SQL Server and MS Access. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential  Business Analyst Responsibilities: Was involved in the creation of BRD, FRD for the project and also worked on defining Project Scope, Goals and Deliverables that support Business Goals in collaboration with Project Team and Stakeholders and built User stories for the project requirements. Developed Communications Documents Project status, project milestones, Notification, guide user-manuals etc. Worked on Use Cases and collaborated with Support/Technical staff, Applications Development, and the Data Owners/Subject Matter Experts during various phases of Project Lifecycle. Identified, managed Project dependencies and Critical path and also worked on Requirement Traceability Matrix. Did the UAT Testing for the Agile Iterations and also updated the Project Tasks in the Project Charter. Created User Manuals for end user and Business User purpose. Evaluated third party products and shared analysis with stakeholders and elicited requirements for the new application through interviews, observation and prototypes Documented requirements into User Stories and created the product backlog Contributed in prioritization of the product backlog along with the Scrum team Collaborated to create detailed Sprint / Iteration plans for the project in the Agile Methodology Participated in Daily Stand-up meetings and iteration review meetings Obtain feedback from project teams regarding the overall effectiveness of processes and procedures - Forward to appropriate stakeholders and process owners. Was a solution analyst for the project development phase and also worked on Scrum technology. Proactively managed changes in Project Scope, identified potential risks, and devised contingency plans and did the Gap Analysis. Involved in daily scrum meetings helping the developers understand the requirements and Business plan. Facilitated the Business Development/ Project Planning meetings and also wrote Test Scripts for Sprint Testing. Implemented Change Management processes and procedures when needed. Created Activity Diagrams for Business Flow and Data Flow diagrams. Confidential  Business Analyst Responsibilities: Studied critically the existing guidelines, guides, customer suggestion logs and Scope documentation to understand the features and bottlenecks of the legacy application Discussed with Product Owner the objective and scope of the project to understand the high level needs of the stakeholders Researched current trends in the online banking applications and online applications used by competitors, listed out the functionalities commonly used in the industry Simulated the tasks performed by the customers online on the application (AS IS analysis) and suggested the improvements in the business processes Evaluated third party products - Fiserv and DocuSign and shared analysis with stakeholders Elicited requirements for the new application through interviews, observation and prototypes Documented requirements into User Stories and created the product backlog Contributed in prioritization of the product backlog along with the Scrum team Collaborated to create detailed Sprint / Iteration plans for the project in the Agile Methodology Participated in Daily Standup meetings and iteration review meetings Assisted Project Manager in executing the transition plan and managing any deviations Created source to target data mapping and documented metadata in excel Prepared detailed data assessment document using SQL Queries Build queries and reports, analyzed qualitative and quantitative data Created report layouts and Screen mocks/designs on Visio Created test cases in collaboration with developers and SME. Facilitated the User Acceptance Testing (UAT) with System Administrators and Business Users and documented any issues or defects Confidential  Business Analyst Responsibilities: Gathered legacy system requirements by shadowing employees in various departments. Also prepared questionnaires, to identify limitations in the current system and GAPS in the proposed system. Elicited the user and business requirements of the new intranet website (IBAAG) through open-ended discussions brainstorming sessions and role-playing. Participated in all phases of Business improvement processes, meetings & roadmaps, documented Mock-up forms in MS word for better visualization and understanding of the software solution. Trained new hires and Onshore counter parts on new issue tracking and ensuring quality metrics are maintained as par with departmental goals and working knowledge of Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). Participated in all Iteration, Scrum, Daily stand-ups and Iteration review meetings working in agile development methodology worked with Product Owners and other Stake Holders to identify priority on the stories based on the high level estimate Contributed in prioritizing the backlog so that the stories are ready for the sprint well in advance. Was involved in analyzing Insurance policy and determine extent of coverage based on the of contracts, build insurance policy documents. Collaborate with implementation managers and attend interviews to correct errors and investigate questionable issues. Analyzed claims related data from databases using MS Excel and SQL to identify trends and created analytic templates using MS Excel to identify repetitive fraudulent patterns. Has worked closely with the IT Departments and Operations department heads in solving complex issues on the policy administration Trained on HIPAA set rules and transactions, code set rules such as EDI 837, 834, 835, 270, 271 . Defined AS-IS, TO-BE in terms of process planning. Coordinated with SME's, QA, test specialists and assisted the Project Manager to define, estimate and schedule business analysis work plan and tasks. Created wireframes and mockup screens for web based application using MS - Visio Ensured that the Acceptance criteria are clear and precise to avoid ambiguity in the requirements. Also that the requirements are written in the (Given, When, Then) format so that the team is on the same page throughout the project lifecycle Involved in every aspect of story identification and in the interaction design for the system and maintained data integrity by ensuring quality and accuracy prior to implementation of new system Documented Source to Target mapping using excel and SQL Validated and updated the Attributes and Traceability of the Requirements - High level and Low level Requirements Played a key role in planning, testing, and implementation of system enhancements and conversions and worked with Quality Assurance Lead to develop detailed Test Plan and Test Cases during the planning phase. Confidential  Business Analyst  Responsibilities: Worked with business stakeholders to understand business needs and translated into functional and operational requirements. Identified application problems and recommended solutions and strategies to resolve the issues. Reviewed and evaluated financial monthly closing procedures and re-engineered the processes resulting in significantly improving the performance by 20%. Streamlined monthly reconciliation procedures of the data feeds between financial systems and signed-off Monthly interface journals to ensure the accuracy and quality of critical financial data for internal control purposes. This project was implemented using water fall methodology. Performed financial processes to support the monthly closing activities of finance groups. Conducted Brain storming sessions and put together road-map for the development. Developed functional, conceptual, and logical design specifications based on business requirements. Created and modified change management requests on behalf of the client business. System testing, including database testing to have completeness of the process. Co-ordinated between testers and developers for faster resolution of issues. Confidential  Jr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Participated in all phases of the revenue life cycle from requirements definition through product delivery and support including configuring, testing, and implementing technical and business process solutions; Responsible for leading project meetings with the business/user community in gathering comprehensive business requirements and translating them into automated solutions, to include workflow technical design and implementation. Participated in project team meetings and created detailed technical implementation plans, serving as the technical liaison with the software programming team as applicable. Conducted Gap Analysis between current and future Project initiatives; Implemented workflow solutions and project monitoring, to include ongoing workflow maintenance. Clarified system, workflow, and process needs with operations to understand the purpose and content of requested enhancements. Assisted customers with understanding system functionality and process flows. Documented business requirements and technical details utilizing a variety of tools including Word, Excel and Visio. Identified system enhancements that will improve business processes and support future business needs. Analyzed and changed business rules in the Revenue Cycle Management Workflow (internal application Developed on visual basic with Excel as the user front-end) Developed detailed technical design for workflow automation, and implement system changes including monitoring for successful and intended outcomes. Utilized operational and system knowledge to provide recommendations for increased efficiencies and automation through proprietary workflow system. Wrote SQL queries to identify and analyze data discrepancies; Advanced use of excel functions such as Pivot Tables, V-Lookups, Conditional formatting, IF, SUMIF, COUNT SUM, to assist with the preparation of data reports; Followed Agile development methodology best practices (Iterative development and release of work flows based on evolving customer requirements, light weight documentation and intensive team collaboration).