SUMMARY Seasoned Business Analysis professional wif 8 years of work experience in Banking, Financial, Healthcare and Retail industries. Excellent conceptual and technical skills to create Business Requirements Document, Functional Specifications Document, Process Flow Diagram, and Detailed Design Document. Experienced in conducting JAD (Joint Application Development) sessions wif Stakeholders and Business Partners to resolve issues. Expertise in creating project artifacts such as Business Requirements Document (BRD), Use Case Documentation, Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM), Business Rules Spreadsheet (BRS), Functional Requirements Document (FRD), Data Mapping Document, and Systems Requirements Specification. Worked extensively on Business Requirements Elicitation, Process Modeling, Risk Analysis, and development of Functional Specifications. Sound expertise in defining and documenting Business Process Flows and AS - IS and TO-BE processes. Created technical documentations such as Requirements Documents, Design Document, Test Plans, User Acceptance Test Plans. In-depth knowledge and experience wif all phases and methodologies of Software Development Life Cycle including Waterfall, Agile/Scrum and RUP. Strong experience in Business & Data Analysis, Data Profiling, Data Migration, Data Integration and Metadata Management Services. Highly qualified in changing the needs of Business Users and Stakeholders to the Functional/Technical Requirements. Served as a critical resource and liaised between Subject Matter Experts and Technologists throughout the project life cycle. Developed Use Cases using UML and MS Visio for an ease wif system interaction. Modified and changed the User Interface (UI) as per the system requirements and clients’ requirements. Interacted wif QA team for Unit/Integration/System Testing. Highly motivated, organized and detail oriented wif excellent interpersonal, communication and presentation skills. Proven capability of adapting to new and fast changing technologies. Experienced in working wif cross functional and cross-cultural team environments, different levels of management and liaison between system users, management and development teams. Highly motivated team player wif experience in working wif large organizational environment. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Sr. Business/Data Analyst Confidential, Wayzata, MN Responsibilities: Worked directly wif the Project Manager to manage project scope and handled scope changes, scope creep, process change, etc. and created/updated required documents for proper communication to all impacted teams. Managed change control logs and version control for the documents to provide the ease of understanding and finding the correct documents. Managed and coordinated the efforts of the Business Analyst and user experience team as a mobile Business Analyst Lead to ensure a timely delivery of artifacts for a successful release. Conducted daily stand-up meetings to get live updates from the team, helped Project Manager actively update the project status, detected risks at early stage and took corrective/preventive actions. Created precise High-Level Use Case (UC) to detailed UC documents to be used throughout the project. Prepared business process models and created AS-IS/TO-BE flows (Gap Analysis) to represent the current and future capabilities of the product. Assured delivery of number of documents in a timely and efficient manner. (BRD, Wireframes, Style Guide, Copy Document, Technical Flow Diagram, etc.) Managed workflows and sign off via SharePoint for all required documentation throughout the release. Worked wif Compliance, Fraud, Risk and Security teams to ensure their concerns and requirements were covered. Authored Project Change Request (PCR) Documents, and drove PCR from analysis to development. Conducted JAD sessions, user interviews, and detailed research and requirement meetings to gather requirements and fetch details for Business Requirements Document (BRD). Provided active testing support to the testing team. Actively participated in mobile application releases by running test cases, revivifying defects/bugs and properly communicating and highlighting them to the required representatives. Environment: Agile Scrum, MS Office Suite, Quality Center, MS Visio, UML, Rational Suite, MS Project. Business Systems Analyst Confidential, New York, NY Responsibilities: Facilitated JAD (Joint application development) sessions on Business Requirement Document and Functional Specification Documents wif Business Owners, SMEs, Business Analysts, and Development Team. Acted as a liaison between business teams and IT teams to assist in defining objectives, requirements and priorities of applicable business system. Facilitated demo workshops and training to Business Managers, Business Users and demonstrated the entire functionality of the product. Created and facilitated the walkthrough sessions on the screen mock-ups of the proposed product wif Business Managers and Business Owners. Created Use Case Diagrams and Activity Diagrams based on UML methodology and Business Process Flow Diagrams using MS Visio. Performed GAP Analysis based on business needs and prioritized requirements. Analyzed business processes, functional detail and created Product Breakdown Structure (PBS). Created and documented User Stories to define the functionality the system must provide. Worked wif Solution Architect and Data Architect to develop high-level as well as detailed application architecture. Wrote SQL to verify and validate dat results match the reference data being provided. Documented Test Scripts per the business specifications and design documents. Communicated project changes and status to the stakeholders on a daily basis, ensuring each proposed change goes through a systematic project Impact Analysis. Implemented Software Quality Assurance development policies and test procedures. Coordinated UAT wif business partners, helped identify relevant test data and reporting metrics. Conducted daily stand-up meetings to get live updates from the team, helped Project Manager actively update the project status, detected risks at early stage and took corrective/preventive actions. Environment: Agile Scrum, MS Office Suite, Quality Center, MS Visio, UML, MS SQL Server 2012, Rational Requisite Pro, MS Project. Business Analyst Confidential, Bloomfield, CT Responsibilities: Worked on improvement of Claims Reimbursement User Interface for a better experience and incorporated changes as per HIPAA guidelines using the GAP Analysis. Developed Test Cases and Test Plans on the basis of requirements and also did manual testing of the functionality of the application to ensure dat the application was able to handle alot of data. Used UML to create Use Case Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and Activity Diagrams. Performed Backend Testing by using PL/SQL queries to test the integrity of the application. Developed Flowchart and Process Diagram using MS Visio. Prepared the Functional Specification Document (FSD) and Software Requirement Specifications (SRS) as per SEI CMM standards. Conducted JAD sessions wif Stakeholders and Developers to have a clear picture of the project. Implemented RUP (Rational Unified Process) Methodology for iterative and incremental development of the system. Contacted Business Partners on the status of issues, action plans and timeframe for resolution throughout the development cycle. Identified bugs during the test phase and reported them using HP Quality Center. Maintained Traceability Matrix throughout the project. Conducted interviews wif clients to analyze their data and gather requirements. Clarified QA team issues and reviewed Test Plans and Test Scripts developed by development team and QA team to made sure all requirements had been covered in scripts and tested properly. Environment: RUP, SQL, MS Visio, MS Office Suite, UML, Windows XP, Rational Test Manger. Business Analyst Confidential, New York, NY Responsibilities: Developed understanding of various transactions involved in transition from HIPAA 4010 to HIPAA 5010 like Eligibility, Benefit, Claim submission transactions in Facets tables. Analyzed and validated requirement for HIPAA 5010 and gatheird requirement for ICD-10. Analyzed and documented differences between the AS-IS and TO-BE processes. Worked on EDI 270/271 (Claim Eligibility Inquiry) /276/277 (Claim Status Check) /837 Claim Submission /835 (Claim Remittance) in Facets lifecycle. Developed mapping documents for ICD-9 to ICD-10 application. Exercised control throughout all the sprints of the project life cycle. Prepared Business Process Models dat included modeling of all the activities of the business from the conceptual to procedural level. Prepared and tracked Burn Down Charts and Velocity Charts for timely delivery of projects. Supported User Acceptance testing (UAT) and collaborated wif the QA team to develop Test Plans, Test Scenarios, Test Cases and Test Data to be used in testing, based on business requirements and application knowledge. Interacted wif the developers to report and correct bugs. Created and maintained Issues Log and ensured timely resolution of all items. Coordinated wif the stakeholders and project key personnel to gather functional and non-functional requirements during JAD sessions. Involved in development of Business and Technical Requirements in preparation of Design and Functional Specifications for Business Needs and Processes. Performed UAT, Regression testing on EDI 835 and formats in Facets. Responsible for prioritizing user stories and assigned to different sprints and facilitated daily stand ups and managed task board wif user stories and board. Environment: MS Office Suite, MS Visio, Agile Scrum, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, Quality Center, Windows Server 2003, Java, Java Script, Business Objects, Facets 4.7. Business Analyst Confidential, Burlington, NJ Responsibilities: Conducted meetings and JAD sessions for project definition, resource identifications and deliverable prototype identification. Developed Functional Requirement Document, Workflow Diagrams and Use Case Specification Document. Assumed the position/personality of employees working in the warehouse to understand human factors leading to the problem. Developed action plans for correcting the issue in incremental steps and comparing outcome against the KPIs set, streamlined logistics activity. Identified problems in business process, developed innovative solutions by employing new technologies into the workplace, eliminating human related errors in the supply chain. Developed techniques for training the warehouse teams in improving their skill and eliminating errors. Developed Business Process Flow Diagrams in Visio, identified critical points which were creating issues. Gatheird AS-IS information by following the concerned stakeholders in their day-to-day activities, studying their operations behavior. Mapped the Order Management & Order Evaluation processes, identified the accuracy of operations by performing a statistical analysis. Optimized efficiency of supply chain & logistics planning by eliminating the errors occurring at distribution centers; theirby enhancing product availability at stores. Conducted workshops and brainstorming sessions wif various stakeholders in the project to gather their individual requirements; documented and analyzed them to develop functional tasks. Used MS Visio for Flow Charts, Use Case Process Model and Architectural Design of the application. Environment: MS Visio, MS Office Suite, Human Factor Analysis, KPI Analysis, Process Analysis, Oracle. 