SUMMARY Over 6 years of experience as Technical Business System Analyst in various domains of Manufacturing, Healthcare, Insurance and Finance industry and further in all phases of Software Development Life Cycles, including Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Integration, Implementation, Technical writing and Testing. Extensive Story Writing and product development experience in Jira and Confluence through Daily Sprints with Business Users. Developed the product backlog along with Product Owners and participated in sprint planning, daily scrums, testing, retrospectives and sprint reviews. Coached and developed a distributed team of business executives and technical professionals regarding Agile roles, routines and responsibilities resulting in a more thorough understanding of Scrum/Kanban and a faster start up time to developing software. Experience in developing and organizing deliverables throughout the lifecycle of the project: BRD (Business Requirement Document), FRD (Functional Requirement Document), PDD (Project/ Product Definition Document), SRS (System Requirement Specification) and Change Management Documents. Experienced in working with Waterfall methodology, Agile Software Development, Rapid Application Development (RAD). Extensive experience with Business Process Management (BPM) system and tools and proficiency in interacting with the stakeholders, and Subject Matter Experts (SME’s) to get a better understanding of the Business Process. Experience in developing Test Plans, Test Scenarios, Test Cases and Test Data from requirements and Use Cases. Assisting in creating User Acceptance Testing (UAT) plan, training the key users and performing it based on the test data provided. Extensive Experience in the development of Automation Framework for the Applications running on various platforms. Developed Selenium RC Framework for the Web based applications and QTP/Test Partner Automation Frameworks for the .Net/Windows/Web based applications. In - depth knowledge of Enterprise Data warehousing ETL, Data warehousing requirements, and Enterprise level data warehousing Working knowledge and experience with SQL/PL SQL. Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills in designing, developing, and implementing innovative business processes using new approaches and technology. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Methodologies: Agile, Kanban, Waterfall, RUP. Operating Systems: Unix, Linux and Windows. Languages: Java, SQL, Python. Requirement Tools: Microsoft Suite, Jira, Quality Center and Confluence. Reporting Tools: Tableau, IBM Business Objects XI, Cognos. Databases: Oracle 9i/10g, Oracle 11g, IBM DB2, Postgress. Testing Tools: Quality Center, SOAPUI, Selenium IDE, QTP, Jira. IDE Environments: Eclipse, PyCharm. Version Control: Github, SVN. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Chicago, IL Business Analyst Responsibilities: Document end-client’s business requirements Work with Epochal to translate into a Functional Requirements Document (FRD) Transitioning from Water-fall to Agile environment to better manage various projects Planning and running sprints Maintaining backlog while consulting with different Stakeholders to work towards resolving projects goals in a timely manner Obtain Epochal sing-off Work with development team in India, answering any questions they might have Work with quality assurance teams in India and U.S. to complete functional, integration, performance and user acceptance testing. Environment: Microsoft Suite, Jira, SQL, Java, HTML, Agile, Excel, MS Visio, MS Project, Power Point, Share Point Server, Quality Center, ETL tools-Informatica Confidential, St Charles, IL Business Analyst/Test Engineer Responsibilities: Participate in planning requirements gathering/regular project status updates throughout the life cycle of the project working with various business teams, support team/vendors for LMDW (Manufacturing, Lab, Distribution and Warehouses) projects. Facilitated Daily Standup’s and worked with client business users through interviews, workshops, and brainstorming sessions. Actively worked with the Product Owner and Stakeholders to monitor and prioritize product backlog on an ongoing basis to meet release timelines and value to the business. Works with outside organizations and business partners to coordinate cross-team dependencies in order to meet product objectives. Coordinates user acceptance testing each release, assisting cross functional subject matter experts with new functionality and the Scrum process. Gathers metrics and performs analysis to determine areas of potential improvement and implements process changes as necessary. Developed project schedule, scheduled deadlines for project phases, accommodated requirement changes into project timeline and managed project tasks using MS Project. Worked as per the Agile development model. Drafted the Physical Data Mapping document for the data flow from Facets to the data warehouse. Conducted daily build validations and report status to Production and QA team. Interacted with developers to report software bugs and retested the fixed issues. Facilitated User Acceptance Testing and test strategies with developers and testers and participated in manual front-end testing to check all functionalities of different modules. Participated in performing detailed non-functional requirements analysis, including usability, reliability, performance, and scalability. Transformed business requirements to technical models. Environment: Microsoft Suite, Jira, SQL, Java, HTML, Agile, Excel, MS Visio, MS Project, Power Point, Share Point Server, Quality Center, Appian, Tableau, Github and Python. Confidential, Minneapolis, MN Business Analyst/Test Engineer Responsibilities: Identify and analyze business requirements from documents and end-user discussions, identify and define the data requirements necessary to support each reporting process. Prepared Business Process Models that depicted modeling of all the activities of the business from the conceptual to procedural level. Followed a structured Use-Case approach to organize requirements into logical groupings of essential business processes, business rules, and information needs like data, and insures that critical requirements are not missed. Developed Activity Diagrams at different levels for the developed Use Cases using UML. Prepared Logical Data Models that contains set of diagrams and supporting documents containing the essential business elements, detailed definitions, and descriptions of the relationships and mapping between the data elements to analyze and document business data requirements. Analyze reports targeted to evaluate coding procedures identifying areas of improvement in terms of accuracy, effectiveness and/or efficiency. Write queries and develop SQL scripts in order to generate needed data for appropriate report. Extract clinical/healthcare data from multiple sources (Data warehouse, SQL server) and create integrated analytic data sets. Coordinated and performed following types of testing: Smoke Test, Integration Testing, System Testing, Functional Testing, End to end Testing, Sanity Testing, Regression Testing, Acceptance Testing, Load Testing, Performance Testing, Usability Testing, Backout Testing. Worked parallel with the Enterprise Test Data Management Team (ETDM) for acquiring the test data to be used during the Testing. Designed regression test bed of re-usable, data-driven tests that were decomposed to a level that should be usable by existing and future test scenarios. This resulted in cost benefit of reducing time for test creation, maintenance, and execution by design. Single point of contact for smoke testing existing functionality with upcoming new releases and applying database patches accordingly. Used Quality Center to track and report system defects for various releases and applications. Analyzed the test results and graphs by generating different reports reflecting the stability of the application with the QC, development and business team. Supported Business SME’s during UAT for Input Test Data, running cron jobs, data backup and data refresh. Triage the defects between developers and Business users. Develop Dashboards with KPI, metrics and data points to support management objectives. Environment: Agile, Java, Axure, Microsoft Suite, Jira, SQL, Share Point Server, Quality Center, Toad, Oracle 11g, Informatica, Webservices, SOAPUI, Cognos, SVN and Unix. Confidential, Chicago, IL Business Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for creating and maintaining documentation related to the project including scope document, vision document, functional specification document, defect status report, mitigation plans, supplementary requirements specification document and impact analysis document. Gather interface requirements across platforms to support business rules and HCR changes (EDI 834). Worked on the HIPAA 4010 conversions and worked on the EDI 834, 837, 835 and 278 files and validated the functionality according to the new HIPAA 4010 changes. Worked on Claims (Dental, Medical, and Rx), Customer services, Members, Enrolment interfaces and extensions for FACETS as a part of FACETS implementation team. Worked as Scrum Master and facilitated Sprint Ceremonies like Sprint Planning meetings, Daily Scrums, Standup, Sprint Demo and Sprint Retrospective. Employed JIRA for Agile project management, create and monitor product backlog, Sprint backlog, bug tracking, key metrics, velocity tracking, change management and estimation. Worked closely with the QA Team and played a key role in bringing best practices of Test Driven Development (TDD) in an Agile environment. Created Requirements Traceability Matrix and support in creation of enterprise solution architecture to integrate business rules across domains. Reviewed WSDLs created through IRD's and Message Specifications used for enrolling & maintaining groups and members. Extensively involved in Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL process) from Source to target systems using Informatica Power Center. Experience with ICD9/ICD10, National Drug Code (NDC), Diagnostic Related Groups (DRG), Current Procedural Terminology (CPT), and National Council for Prescription Drug Programs (NCPDP) codes and NSF formats for interfaces & images to clearing house / trading partner's applications. Debugged SQL queries as a reengineering process to any problems or errors found. Responsible for Data Extraction, Data Compilation, Data Analysis, Data Manipulation and Data Validation using SQL queries. Prepared test Data sets and performed data testing using the PL/SQL scripts. Developed tableau framework for data mining, data cleansing, data mapping, and data dictionary and data analysis. Environment: Agile, SVN, Windows, MS Office (Excel), MS Visio, SharePoint, HIPAA 4010/5010, BPMN, SSIS, QC, Oracle 10g, XML, SQL SERVER. Confidential, Chicago, IL Intern Business/Quality Analyst Responsibilities: Worked in conjunction with BA’s, Program Managers and Development teams to ensure that applications met requirements and are of high quality. Developed and maintained Consumer and Small business statement scripts for various functionalities including: Statement Header, Account Summary section, Account Inquiries, Remit Coupon, Individual Account Activity section, Backer, Late Payment Messages Test account data verification with TSYS system Gathered test results for business review meetings after completion of test execution Conducted User Acceptance Testing (UAT) to check the application properly reflects the business functions and requirements in several environments Performed Back-end testing using PL/SQL and verified data transfer from the application to the database by creating/executing SQL queries using Toad, SQL Query Analyzer and SQL Developer Identified defects in ALM and retested them after deploy of the code/build Export test cases from Excel spreadsheet into ALM Responsible for performing system Integration testing to ensure flow of data from the TSYS mainframe to the generated statements on Info Pac. Conditioned multiple accounts to meet testing criteria. Provide training and guidance to new employees on standards, methodologies, and applications/tools Environment: Windows, Mainframe, MS Office, SQL, QC, QTP. 