SUMMARY 7 years of diverse experience in Systems analysis & Design, Business Requirement Gathering, Process Modeling, Quality Assurance, Business Process flow and Data Modeling within industries such as Healthcare, Tele - communications, Banking and Finance. Comprehensive noledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) having through understanding of various phases like Requirements, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing. Significant experience in preparing graphical depictions of Uses Cases including State Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Use-case Diagrams, Component-Based Diagrams, Collateral Diagrams, including Business Workflows using UML Methodologies. Experience in creating Prototypes, User Stories, Mockup Screens, conceptual modelling to demonstrate Non-functional and functional requirements. Proven commitment to assisting organizations in achieving their strategic goals by way of detail-oriented business analysis and strategic solution identi cation. Highly skilled in requirements identi cation, stakeholder management, and resource coordination. Experience in managing large scale projects and supporting multiple departments successfully and in improvising business test processes by introducing AGILE/SCRUM, Rational Unified Process and Waterfall methodologies to bring in great success in teh business framework. Extensively worked on Traceability Matrix and Mapping between customer requirements and test cases. Excellent skills in preparing BRDs (Business Requirement Document), FRDs (Functional Requirement Document) and Project plans. Experience in conducting JAD (Joint Application Development) sessions for requirement gathering, analysis and design. Comprehensive noledge and hands on experience with SQL Used JIRA for documenting versions and defect tracking. Experienced in developing Data Mapping, Performance tuning and identifying Bottlenecks of sources, mappings, targets and sessions Well versed with Software Test Life Cycle (STLC) and various testing methodologies such as User Acceptance Testing (UAT), unit testing, regression testing, end to end testing and system testing. Experience in working with cross-functional groups, different levels of management, implementing Risk Management tactics, Proposal Writing and liaison between system users, company management and development teams. TECHNICAL SKILLS Software development methodologies: SDLC, RUP, Waterfall, Agile: SCRUM Business modelling tools: Rational rose, MS Visio Reporting& Other tools: MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Outlook Languages: C, C++, SQL, UML Visual modelling tools: Rational rose, MS Visio Tracking tools: JIRA, Rational requisite pro Operating Systems: Windows (XP, Vista, 8, 10) PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Boston, MA  Sr. B.A/Scrum Master Responsibilities: Facilitated Daily scrum meetings, sprint planning, sprint review, and sprint retrospective meetings. Coordinated and conducted elicitation techniques like JAD sessions, interviews and walkthrough sessions involving stakeholders, Product owner and technical team. Tracked and communicated team velocity and sprint/release progress with teh aid of Burndown charts. Collaborated with Product Owner in backlog refinement and prioritizing. Developed user stories, use cases, functional and non-functional documents. Monitored teh development progress throughout each sprint to ensure project was within scope and budget. Ensured cross-functional coordination between product owners, analysts, developers and QA occurred early and often, and removed barriers and blockers for teh team Met goal of addressing and resolving issues e.g. Impediments as they emerged as rapidly as possible. Performed Reverse Engineering on legacy application to be noledgeable in eliciting requirements by Brainstorming, one-to-one interviews, Focus group interviews, and JAD sessions. Helped teh team understand SMART tasks and helped them in task breakdown for user-stories in sprints. Followed Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology (Scrum). Implemented teh testing cycle schedules, timelines, test plan and test cases for system testing and developed user training manuals. Created Business Requirements Document (BRD) and System Requirement Specification (SRS). Expert in interacting with Stakeholders, User Clients, and Developers, while meeting teh needs and goals. Performed Gap analysis by identifying existing technologies, documenting teh enhancements to meet teh endstaterequirements. Conducted Impact Analysis and SWOT Analysis to understand teh currentstateand expectedstate of teh system. Streamlined project operations and ensured timely delivery of said projects by strategically defining and overseeing timelines for deliverables by coordinating with teh Development Team and Stakeholders using Agile Methodology. Taught teh development team to keep teh daily scrum within teh 15 minutes. Ensured cross-functional coordination between product owners, analysts, developers and QA occurred early and often, and removed barriers and blockers for teh team Created templates and leading discussions on discovering requirements for a Performance Standards Document and a Key Performance Indicator document for quantitative measurements of projects. Educated and reinforced both offshore and onshore teams in Agile and Scrum methodology and facilitated cross-team coordination and collaboration. In depth understanding of teh As-Is and To-Be business processes and experience in converting these requirements into Technical Specifications for preparing Test Plans. Experience in using JIRA to document epics, user stories, risks, issues, defects. Monitored teh development progress throughout each sprint to ensure project was within scope and budget. Documented teh FRDs as per thebusinessrequirements, designed Use Cases diagrams and prepared teh workflow using use case scenarios with Input, Output, and Pre- and Post-conditions using UML. Environment: Windows, Java, Oracle, SQL, DQL, Microsoft Office suite, UML, SAS, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Project, Waterfall/ Agile, HP Quality Center, JIRA, SharePoint, Documentum. Confidential, Seattle, WA Sr. B.A/Scrum Master Responsibilities: Facilitated all Scrum ceremonies and coordinated product delivery effort through continuous development, testing and support initiatives. Facilitated JAD sessions, conducted interviews, Q&A sessions withbusinessusers, SMEs (subject matter expert) to solicitbusinessrequirements relative to proposed functionality Highly expertized in tracing requirements throughout teh development process and verifying adherence to Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM). Experience working with an Application Lifecycle Management (ALM) tool. (JIRA preferred) Analyzed, collected and prepared user requirements, definitions, scope and expectations for deliverable plans. Guided and facilitated user story task/breakdown, prioritization to meet sprint commitment. Guided & facilitated onsite and offshore team on matters of Agile/Scrum to continue meeting client’s expectation. Participated and facilitated Integrated Weekly Scrum of Scrum meeting with Technical Delivery Manager/Scrum Masters across various initiatives to provide a platform to discuss dependencies, issues and risks from a delivery perspective. Developed Test Cases, Test Plans, and Test Scenarios and performed Unit Testing and User Acceptance Testing (UAT) for cloud-computing business requirements and technical specifications. Conducted Training Sessions for Testing Team andBusinessUser's involved in UAT before Production Roll-out. Created high quality functional requirement specifications (FRS) and supporting documents for business systems. Continuous engagement with leadership and product owners on release planning to better prepare for upcoming feature releases. Lead coordinated and facilitated tailor fit coaching session with team members, product owners on company's Agile play book. Maintained engagement with UI, UX, Data, and Product Owners, other stakeholders to ensure visibility, transparency, and collaboration in all work effort. Interviewing clients to understand their business and functional requirements, gathering their future needs and transforming them to functional specifications using Agile/Scrum Analyzed Test Cases that tested all aspects of software functionality. Provided strong direction to teh development team in understanding and implementing requirements Carried out a thorough target organization assessment and risk analysis. Involved in teh development of Test Plans, Test Cases, and Expected Results, and coordinated teh tests with teh QA team to verify implementation of new features and enhancements. Environment: Agile, RUP, UML, Java, Oracle, SQL, HTML, SharePoint, MS VISIO, MS OFFICE (Word, Excel, MS Access, PowerPoint, Project) and Load Runner Confidential, Chicago, IL Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Created business requirements documents, functional requirement documents and conduced User Interviews to identify and document teh data discrepancies Worked on SCRUM Project Management and Agile Methodologies for Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Participated in daily scrum meetings and coordinated monthly Sprint meetings. Involved in preparing product backlog and sprint backlog and assisting teh Product Owner. Performed GAP analysis and documented business and system level use cases to derive teh requirements illustrating teh functional behavior. Conducted analysis of HIPAA compliance and took part in discussions for designing teh healthcare transactions to be HIPAA 5010 compliant Performed application functionality user acceptance testing (i.e. front-end application testing) in a controlled testing environment that replicates teh end user usability of teh application Conducted brainstorming sessions to get data from all our Primary Vendors/ Clients, Trading Partners, Direct Submitters and create a Data Warehouse/ Repository. Conducted interview sessions with users and different levels of management so as gain insight on insurance system Managed requirements, bugs and issues using JIRA and tracked teh project life cycle. Responsible to resolve complex issues relating to claims adjudication, eligibility verification, prior authorization and other Pharmacy Benefits Management (PBM) processes. Responsible for performing database and list pulls for strategic initiatives to support communication to Pharmacy Benefit Management (PBM) members primarily relating to formulary and benefit plan design. Facilitated strategic meetings between technical team and hospital administrators resulting in identifying key differences in clinical systems. Participated in creation of Business Process Workflow Diagrams with Stakeholders. Analyzed teh impact of new HIPAA standards on targeted systems, processes, and business-associate relationships Served as teh liaison between teh health plan and teh claims teams for teh Medicare/Medicaid line of business. Ability to interact with individuals at all levels with exceptional skills in forming and facilitating Joint Application Development (JAD). Environment: Agile/Waterfall, Microsoft Office Suite, Microsoft SharePoint, Microsoft Visio, JIRA, HP-ALM, Oracle, SQL Developer, Facets, Citrix Receiver, Service Marketplace, Source Deliverable Repository (SDR) Confidential, Sterling, VA Business Analyst Responsibilities: Created Business Workflow process maps to determine business needs and improve patient experience using Microsoft Visio Extensively followed Six sigma and Lean management protocols to reduce waste and enhance productivity Created a business staffing model using Microsoft Excel to accommodate staffing needs Ensure that project documentation and reporting are complete and meets compliance requirements Collaborating for best solutions with numerous departments and vendors to provide clarity and a process for successful deployments of business needs. Hosted weekly Leadership Review Board meetings to discuss change requests and their impacts on Project Scope. Assisted Design Analysts with creating Use Case Models and Object Models in Rational Rose. Updated and maintained all requirements artifacts and their traceability coverage and held weekly sessions to discuss Suspect Reports. Conduct data analysis related to projects or to operational improvement activities Design project plan including phases of teh plan, work plan for staffing of each phase, deliverables and expected outcomes for each phase Coordinate project development and implementation Environment: Windows, Oracle, MS Access, MS Excel, RUP, UML, SQL, Rational Rose, Requisite Pro, Clear Case, Rational Clear Quest, MS Office suite, MS Visio. Confidential, Freeport, NY Business Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted focus groups with frequent flyers to collect ideas from end user's perspective and recommended such functionalities to business owners upon doing a technical feasibility analysis with teh help of development team. Conducted brain storming sessions with managers of various business groups (Customer service, In-flight, Loyalty, Reservations and Sales & Marketing) to identify mobile app functionalities that would help them serve customers better. Did complexity analysis to understand feasibility and level of effort required to develop functionalities. Upon gathering teh "wish-list" through various exercises, started working with stake holders to write user stories and tasks for sprints, through sprint sessions. Participated in daily SCRUM meetings to help SCRUM master understand teh progress and help with burn-down chart to keep track of project progress Managed Change control to accommodate changes in use cases and tracked enhancements. Performed and coordinate UAT, Lead and facilitate effective project/status/testing meetings. Assisted senior product manager and teh project team with day to day project planning, scheduling, reporting and coordination tasks Asked detailed questions and noted teh requirements to understand business rules, business process, business flow, stakeholders, and follow teh SDLC standard of teh business in project meeting. Elicit and develop clear, traceable requirements using interviews, document analysis, requirements workshops, surveys, site visits, business process descriptions, use cases, scenarios, business analysis, and task and workflow analysis. Environment: Waterfall, Black box testing, Rational Rose, Rational Requisite Pro, SQL, XML, HTML, Windows, Business Objects, MS Visio, MS Excel. Confidential, San Jose, CA Business Analyst Responsibilities: Managed product scheduling and monitoring for teh top revenue earning customers valued at more TEMPthan 51% of teh total income revenue of teh plant Generated financial reports to analyze and monitor teh pattern in teh inventory levels which is used for performance metrics reporting at corporate level Gatheird information from intercompany departments to determine teh progress of work and compile data for business reports communicating on teh progress to teh customer Co-ordinated with Program management, procurement, production, and engineering managers to in corporate design changes and other potential schedule interruptions Revolutionized teh production floor by implementing Lean Manufacturing principles with teh Operations team Participated and supervised through teh whole lifecycle of teh applications using SDLC methodologies Worked with teh business side as well as other IT teams to transition ideas and needs of teh business. Environment: Waterfall, RUP, Rational Rose, Rational Requisite Pro, SQL, XML, HTML, Windows, Business Objects, MS Visio, MS Excel. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Performed business & functional analysis to create evaluation documents, workflow analysis recommendations, detailed system specifications and alternative future state depiction workflows & process diagrams. Proactively identified opportunities and made recommendations to improve teh system's effectiveness via analysis to understand user interactions with system and to scope out opportunities to increase user engagement and satisfaction. Responsible for project management activities such as business communication, status meetings, conflict resolution, task allocation prioritization and mentoring. Developed teh Business Requirements, Functional Requirements, Technical Design Specifications, Use Case Document, UML diagrams, Traceability Matrix and Business decks presentations. Used questionnaire, surveys, JAD sessions and Brainstorming sessions as requirement elicitation techniques Liaised with teh client's facing team to ensure proper documentation is provided for new clients and to remind them of their clients coming due for renewals. Extensive experience in Conducting Market Research, Feasibility Studies, Data Analyses, System Analyses, Gap Analyses, and Risks Analyses Experience in developing Scope/Vision Documentation and Project Plan, as well as tracking Project Process, and manage resources to ensure successful delivery. Attend weekly status review meeting with PMO team to report latest progress and issues found in teh project. Designed and developed Use Cases and Activity Diagrams using Rational Rose/MS Visio. Hosted weekly project status meetings, publish minutes, and manage action items. Worked closely with Change Management team and attended Change Advisory Board meetings. Maintained relationships amongst Business Banking Specialists, Regional managers and Branchmanagers across teh country to help ensure timely completion of customer due diligence reviews. Environment: Waterfall, RUP, Rational Rose, Rational Requisite Pro, SQL, XML, HTML, Windows, Business Objects, MS Visio, MS Excel. 