SUMMARY Seven years experience as Business Analyst in directing cross - functional teams of technical experts to analyse systems & processes and implement infrastructure improvements. Insurance experience includes Personal Property Casualty and Commercial Automobile Product noledge, Reinsurance for Commercial Property Casualty, Group and Life Insurance Systems. Extensive experience in conducting Market Research, Feasibility Studies, Data Analyses, Data Mapping Gap Analyses, Risk Identification, Risk Assessment, Risks Analyses, and Risk management. Expert in commercial Property and Casualty and Personal Lines Insurance experience wif national carriers. Experience in facilitating Joint Requirement Planning (JRP) sessions wif Business User Groups, conducting Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions wif IT Groups and Conflict Management wif Project team members. Good noledge of Web Services, SOAP programming, WSDL, XML technologies DTD, SAX and XSLT. In depth noledge Rational Unified Process (RUP) methodology, Use Cases, Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) processes, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOA/D). Facilitated Change Management across entire process from Project conceptualization to Testing through Project Delivery, Software Development and Implementation Management in diverse Business and Technical Environments. Extensive experience in Testing, Manual and Automated using tools Win Runner, Load Runner, Quick Test Pro, TestDirector, Rational Robot or Web and Client/Server Applications & Mainframes Extensive experience in developing Use Cases, creating Screen Mockups, conducting Gap Analysis and Impact Analysis, SWOT analysis, Cost Benefit Analysis, Risk Analysis. Involved in Test Planning, Test Preparation, Test Execution, Issue Resolution and Report Generation to assure dat all aspects of a Project are in Compliance wif teh Business Requirements. Strong experience in conducting User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and documentation of Test Cases. Expertise in designing and developing Test Plans and Test Scripts. TECHNICAL SKILLS OOAD (OOA/OOD) RUP UML SDLC Agile Waterfall QA WAP CVS TEAMMATE MS Access SQL Server MySQ Windows 98/2000/XP basic SOAP UNIX HTML basic DHTML basic XML MS Office Suite-Excel Macros MS Project MS Visio Adobe Photoshop Flash Rational- Rational Rose Clear Quest Rational Cobol Easytrieve Requisite Pro CaliberRM Omniture Crystal Reports PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, IA Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Worked on User Stories which deals wif API including: Swagger, Restful Service, Restful endpoint, Web Services, Publishing Events, Transform, Consume, Relay, xml, Json, Java Scheduler, Metadata, WSDL, XSLT Identified pain point in SDLC and recommended a SCRUM approach to requirements which was implemented and resulted in faster turnaround time for application development. Worked wif teh various lines of business wifin Confidential to implement requirement tractability for teh Data Warehouse project, which resulted in a greater acceptance of teh project. Acted as liaison between teh business and technical organization on key initiatives for Dodd-Frank regulatory rules implementation. Specific assignments include managing and coordinating analysis of business functionality. Contributed to requirements work for both teh integrated and semantic marts Facilitated Data requirements review and analysis after Business Unit submission Supported broad-based communication across teh Data Program Leadership Conducted JAD sessions wif management, vendors, users and other stakeholders for open and pending issues to develop specifications. Involved in meetings wifSME’s and Data Architect in understanding BusinessRules and teh reports which were generated on mainframes. Involved in creating mapping document for multiple legacy systems and data conversion from various proprietary systems to a relational database working wif application support. Perform Source-to-Target Data Mapping; Data Lineage Analysis and documentation using teh Enterprise Metadata Repository. Perform gap analysis of current state to desired state and document requirements to control teh gaps identified. Environment: Erwin 7.2/7.1/4.1, Informatica 6.0, Cognos, Teradata, Oracle 9i, SQL Server 2003SQL, PL/SQL, MS Office, Windows 2003. Confidential, IL Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Played key role in System Development Life Cycle Process consisting of: Design and Gap Analysis, Business Requirements, Systems Requirements, Test Criteria, and Implementation to have teh outputs of project dealt wif teh automation of correspondence directed to Insurance policy owners. Worked on AWD which utilizes teh latest in business process management, imaging, workflow, and customer management technology to support new policy generation, underwriting, and claims servicing for teh property and casualty insurance industry. Wrote Business Cases for teh Stakeholders to understand teh functioning of teh new Underwriting System. Responsible for developing annual and mid-year operating budgets by underwriting departments. Responsible for special projects requested by company management or reinsurance broker involving analyzing underwriting revenue and financial performance for company’s reinsurance broker. Worked on teh lines of BOP in analysing, identifying different system impacts and co-ordinated wif different cross-functional teams. Worked on Regulatory Reporting (RRD) Data Warehouse for compiling Workers Compensation statistical reports to external regulators and states. Analyzed teh requirements and wrote programs, using detailed workflow charts and diagrams dat describe input, output, and logical operation and applying noledge of COBOL, JCL, DB2, ColdFusion, subject matter, and business logic. Performed revision and expansion of existing COBOL programs and Job Control Language JCL to increase operating Prepared Business Context Diagram, Use Case diagrams and corresponding Activity Diagrams using Rational Rose to depict teh workflows to be incorporated into teh development of Pega Business Process Management (BPM) tool. Involved wif teh technical team in understanding teh XML file format required for Split loss process and Billing process. Performed Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data Utilized corporation developed Agile SDLC methodology. Used ScrumWork Pro and Microsoft Office software to perform required job functions. Responsibilities included source system analysis, data transformation, loading, validation for data marts, operational data store and data warehouse. Worked extensively wif MS Excel and MS access Responsible for process modeling from inception through implementation and post implementation optimization along wif associated UI design. Assisted in on-going process improvement efforts to ensure Test Planning, Execution, and Reporting is effective, efficient, standardized, coordinated, and integrated. Assisted in building a Business Analysis Process Model using Rational Rose and Visio. Authored various Use Cases and Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams using Rational Requisite Pro and used UML methodology to define teh Data Flow Diagrams (DFD). Used Test Director and Mercury Quality Center for updating teh status of all teh Test Cases & Test Scripts dat are executed during testing process. Documented and delivered Functional Specification Document to teh project team. Conducted JAD sessions for communicating wif Stakeholders and Project directors. Developed business requirement specification documents as well as high-level project plan. Environment: Mainframes, COBOL, JCL, Db2, Oracle, SQL, Java, J2EE, SOAP, Rose, MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel, MS Visio, PMSC; Claim Audit Tool, Work Desk (Image); MVP; Image Central and Central Reporting.LoadRunner, Mercury, WinRunner, AWD. Confidential, Dallas, TX Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Acted as primary liaison between teh client departments and teh Information systems IT department to perform analysis, review, and estimation of client requests, prepared and reviewed requirements and client documentation for Personal Lines Property and Casualty business. Interacted closely wif End users from Underwriting & Claims teams and SMEs to understand and gather teh business needs and requirements. Work closely wif production underwriters to review commercial property insurance renewal and new business opportunities to ensure proper risk identification, analysis and assessment and teh development and growth of a profitable portfolio of business. Worked on Property and Casualty insurance company as an Underwriter. Strong understanding of rating in Property and Causality. Involved in generating Test cases for property and casualty Insurances for Different Levels of Business. Worked directly wif business users to gather, document and implement requirements to improve Marketing campaign delivery capabilities; including enhancement project management. Accumulated system requirements from various departments through surveys and interviews. Involved in prioritizing teh defects and writing business requirements to resolve them. Conducted JAD sessions wif management, SME, vendors, users and other stakeholders for open and pending issues. Planned and defined system requirements to Wire Frames wif Use Case, Use Case Scenario and Use Case Narrative using teh UML (Unified Modeling Language) methodologies. Created Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and ER Diagrams in MS Project. Worked for a project to customize and integrate a Business Process Management (BPM) solution. Developed automated Test Scripts in Win Runner using Test Script Language (TSL) for Functional Testing, Regression Testing, Data Driven Testing, Usability Testing, and Verifying Specific content through using Checkpoints Created and managed project templates, Use Case project templates, requirement types and traceability relationships in Requisite Pro. Debugged and fixed several production issues. Created Struts actions which encapsulate business logic of teh application. Worked extensively wif MS Excel and MS access Involved in Performance Measurement to develop measurable indicators dat can be systematically tracked to assess progress made in achieving predetermined goals. Developed and managed creation of product documentation to communicate features, benefits, positioning and impacts to different audiences and ensured dat documentation deliverables from various groups are produced as needed. Responsible for special projects requested by company management or reinsurance broker involving analyzing and underwriting revenue and financial performance for company’s reinsurance broker. Environment: Rational Enterprise Suite (Rose, RequisitePro, ClearCase, ClearQuest), Casewise modeller, XML, Mercury, Java, Oracle, DB2, Sybase, SQL Server, WinRunner, LoadRunner, Quick TestPro Confidential, OH Business Analyst Responsibilities: Maintained a traceability matrix for all requirements and mapping to various Data Reporting Manuals, User Guides. Analyzed standard industry practices of back office applications of Insurance Company, underwriting, billing, policy and claims administration wif teh halp of Subject Matter Expert. Lead Tracker process developed using company’s existing AWD solution AWD managed follow-up activities in other parts of teh organization. Examined various bottlenecks and points for automation to streamline teh claims processing, underwriting and pre- and post-sales process. Processing of New Business, Renewal, Cancellation, Reinstatement, Billing for various lines of business (Fire, Auto, Commercial) Organized Joint Application developments (JAD), Joint Application Requirements sessions (JAR), Interviews and Requirement Elicitation sessions Wrote Test Cases in Mercury Quality center dat would test various Test scenarios. Provided key initiatives in working wif users in defining project and system requirements. Involved in Logical & Physical Data Modeling. Database Schema design and modification of Triggers, Scripts, Stored Procedures in Sybase Database Servers. Conducted Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions wif IT groups. Identified teh Key Changes, and participated in Stakeholder Management to communicate effectively wif them Responsible for teh development of a Data Warehouse for personal lines property and casualty insurance. Conducted JAD sessions wif CRM SMEs, system architects, technical teams and other stakeholders for open and pending issues. Worked on data modelling and produced data mapping and data definition documentation Helped wif Data Mapping between teh data mart and teh Source Systems. Extensively used Test Director to review and update teh status of entire testing process. Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, OOAD using UML and Business Process Modeling. Upgraded teh existing Test Scripts and created new scripts for client application to be able to work for new versions and patches, which improved product quality. Coordinated re-architecturing teh existing VBA/Access system into ASP.net environment and existing table structure, stored procedures, and functions in MS SQL environment. Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, OOD using UML Performed requirement analysis, went through all teh use cases and issue logs. Worked extensively wif MS Excel Provide customer service and support for Property & Casualty risk management needs Effective management high-volume business processes. Contact centre desktop and telephony applications enhance customer service. Environment: Windows, MS Office (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Powerpoint, MS Visio), GuideWire, .NET, Oracle, Oracle, Java, J2EE, RUP, UML, SQL, SWOT analysis, GAP Analysis, Win Runner, AWD. Confidential - Westfield Ctr, OH Business Analyst Responsibilities: Gathered high-level requirement for all teh external projects in a release. Extensive involved in analysis of data elements from worker's compensation dat includes various premium components and its calculations, loss amounts & claim counts. Managed General Liability, Commercial Property, Commercial Package, Commercial Auto and Workers Compensation policy lines Worked on UAT testing and took signoff from teh Commercial line of Property & Casualty business users. Completed teh documentation of Claims Scenario’s for teh source system Involved in formatting data stores and generate UML diagrams of logical and physical data. Worked extensively wif MS Excel and MS access Responsible for acting as a liaison wif operational and financial management, systems support and sales to identify business opportunities. Using HTML, Allaire Cold Fusion, Chip Data Repository System and its UNIX based platform, converted COBOL programs to Online Queries System. Recommended design solutions which were implemented. Contributed to instructions or manuals to guide end users. Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, OOD using UML Responsible for gathering requirements from users in operations group and performing data mapping for teh application, confirm and vacillating teh requirement at time of BA testing. Facilitated and led JAD sessions aimed at functional requirement walkthroughs for all teh impacting projects and updated teh documents based on recommendations (if any). Developed messaging services using JMS using soap and integrated wif MQ to DB. Worked wif developers and designers of BPM System to make sure development understands business process and detailed technical requirements. Responsibility included modifications to a customer’s mainframe system to support new product features or regulatory requirements and, in some cases, involved a system upgrade Used MS Visio for Process modeling and Business Process flow diagrams. Used MS Project to manage schedules, deadlines and resources and collaborate on teh project. Interacting wif teh developers on resolving teh reported bugs and various technical issues. Assisted teh QA team in designing teh Test Plan and Test Cases for User Acceptance testing. Environment: Microsoft Office Suite, Microsoft Visio, Unix, Documentum, SOAP, Windows NT/XP, Oracle, SQL, SQL Server, Sybase, Db2, Oracle, Java, J2EE. Business Objects, TestDirector, LoadRunner 