SUMMARY Business Analyst and Project Manager with exceptional record of delivering cost TEMPeffective, high performance technology solutions to meet challenging business demands. Extensive qualifications in all facets of information systems methodology from conceptual design through documentation, implementation, user training, quality review, and enhancement. Creative and innovative thinker, team player with excellent communication and analytical skills, bringing energy, enthusiasm and leadership to problem resolution and solution development. Highly proficient in Microsoft office suites (MS Word, MS Excel, Power Point), Visio, project and experience in requirements eliciting, using interviews, JAD sessions, questionnaires, surveys, brainstorming. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Phoenix, AZ Business Analyst Responsibilities: Implemented numerous business optimization project and reporting tools dat improved efficiency, reduced expenses, labor costs and maximized profit by automating outdated manual processes By conducting series of interviewing sessions, I was able to gather requirements and necessary information dat helped in improving the company sales and overall company product competency. Conducted Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions with stakeholders throughout Projects and was able to elicit requirements, business rules, acceptance Criteria for Content Flow, Workflow, and content enhancement thereby making it easy to resolve open issues. With my knowledge of lean, I was able to help reduce unnecessary waste by bringing inventory to the barest minimum and helping the company to focus more on the required. Functioned as the primary liaison between the operations and the technical team and through the application of process mapping, was able to resolve process issues throughout the project cycle. Created Use Cases, State diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams and developed EPIC’s from the Themes and Documented the Product Backlog for the release. Confidential - Irving, TX Business Metric Analyst Responsibilities: Work across multiple business functions to identify, document, and implement streamlined business processes. Worked with the core team to gather business requirements from multiple stakeholders, operations and management groups - and reconciled conflicts by conducting Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions based on the project scope to create design documents and system specifications for applications. Modeled the AS-IS system and doing the complete Gap Analysis for the existing system in order to map it to the To-Be system Worked with production managers to design and implement tools and controls to achieve performance goals and compiled and presented chart presentations to them on a regular basis, thereby comparing performance and quality trends against set goals Played a key role in the planning, testing, and implementation of system enhancements and conversions. Confidential Continuous Improvement Manager Responsibilities: Drive continuous improvement by developing and implementing process improvements dat will optimize the company sales. Implemented numerous business optimization project and reporting tools dat improved efficiency, reduced expenses, labor cost and maximize profit by improving the on the outdated processes With my knowledge of lean, I was able to help reduce unnecessary waste by bringing inventory to the barest minimum, eradicating redundant departments and helping the company to focus more on the required. Support the business in development and implementation of quality procedures and systems throughout the service process dat support the delivery of quality products and services dat meet or exceed customer expectations, provide for efficiency and accuracy in all customer related processes, to improve company performance. Provide technical inputs for root cause analysis and corrective action. Support quality reporting and responses to customer complaint at our outlets. Initiate actions to prevent the occurrence of any quality non-conformances related to product, process and systems. Compile data and prepare regular and special reports including CRM and other reports.