SUMMARY Talented Business systems analyst professional with 9+ years of progressive experience in IT industry in various domains. Exceptional record of delivering cost - TEMPeffective, high performance technology solutions to meet challenging business demands. Certified Scrum Master with a proven track record of working in self-organizing and cross-functional teams. Excellent understanding and experience working in different Software Development methodologies such as Waterfall, Agile (Scrum, Kanban) & Hybrid (Waterfall-scrum) and experienced in Scrum process implementation. Experienced in elicitation of requirements by conducting and facilitating JAD sessions, Requirement workshops, conducting Interviews, Focus Groups, Brainstorming, Document Analysis, Prototyping and surveys. Experienced in documenting business requirements, functional, non-functional, GUI requirements and Data requirements in the form of Business Requirement Document (BRD), Functional Specifications Document (FSD) and SRS. Functional experience in UML diagrams (sequence diagrams, activity diagrams, Use Case diagrams) and writing Use Cases, Business Process, Data Flow Diagrams, Work Flows & Process Flows and creating UI mock-up screens. Scrum Certified Professional with experience handling multiple teams. Experienced in working with many teams collaboratively and refining business processes to improve efficiency. Sound understanding of various domains and can quickly adapt to new technologies as they evolve. Experienced in creating Prototypes, Wireframes and Mock-Up Screens to visualize Graphical User Interface (GUI) using tools like Balsamiq and Irise. Worked closely with the QA teams to design Test plan, Test cases, Test scripts & RTM (Requirement Traceability Matrix) and documenting and tracking defects using various tools like HP QC, HP ALM, Selenium & LoadRunner Experienced working as a Scrum Master and facilitating various SCRUM Ceremonies including Product Backlog Refinement, Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, Sprint Review, Sprint Retrospective Meetings and solving impediments TEMPeffectively and Protected the team being a Servant Leader. Proficient in Requirement Management, Sprint Planning, Issue Tracking, Impediment Management, and Work Allocation using tools like Version One, JIRA, Rally (CA Agile Central) and also used HP ALM. Experienced in working with UI/UX teams to create mock-ups and GUI screens. Experienced in writing Business User Stories and acted as a liaison between the Business teams, Product owner and facilitated cross functional interaction to build successful Product Increments. Experienced in training new scrum teams and stakeholders on scrum methodology & process through highly interactive workshops and role-plays. Experienced working with variousscrum estimation (t-shirt sizing, planning poker)andprioritization techniques (MoSCow, Kano) and has a good working noledge on Release Planning, Capacity planning, Sprint Velocity and Burn down charts and Burn up charts to track the progress. Excellent understanding and working experience with on-premises applications and various cloud based services SaaS (Software as a Service), PaaS (Platform as a Service), cloud integration tools for TEMPeffective integration in real time basis. Experience working with 3-tier architecture, SOA with a strong understanding of web-services, SOAP, REST, API’s, WSDL, Client Side Validations, Server Side Validation and understands tag based HTML, XML and JSON. Has a good understanding of Data warehousing architecture, ER-modeling, Dimension modeling and various schemas (Star Schema, Snow-flake schema), ETL process, Data mapping, OLTP, OLAP, MOLAP, HOLAP, Data Marts, Operational Data Store (ODS), Data mining, Data profiling & Data Analytics (BI). Experienced in using SQL queries (DDL, DML, DRL) including joins, unions, group by and aggregate function. Team player and proactive person with Excellent Communication, Documentation and Interpersonal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Business Skills:  Defining Business Requirements, Business Process Analysis & Re-engineering, Use Case Modeling, JAD Sessions, Requirements Workshops, GAP Analysis, SWOT Analysis, Impact Analysis, Data Analysis. SDLC Methodologies:  Waterfall, Waterfall-Scrum Hybrid, Scrum, Agile Documentation Tool:  Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, Visio, Project)MS SharePoint, Rational Rose Requirement Management:  JIRA 6.1, HP ALM, MS Project, CA Agile central (Rally), Version One ETL tools:  Informatica PowerCenter v9.x Testing Tools:  HP ALM, HP QC, Selenium, LoadRunner Databases:  Microsoft SQL, Oracle Data Warehousing:  Data Modeling, Data Marts, OLTP, OLAP, Data Profiling, Data Mapping Reporting Tools:  Tableau, IBM Cognos, MS Project, MS Visio, SAP BO BI Languages:  C, C#, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, XML, JSON, PL/SQL Operating Systems:  Windows, Mac OS, Linux Cloud Based Tools:  AWS, Azure, Informatica cloud, SFDC, Oracle Cloud, Heroku, Conga composer PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Washington, DC Responsibilities: Reporting into the Cloud Program Management Office, has been supporting the department's objectives to simplify processes, aggregate & analyze data to provide insightful business perspectives for better decision making. Responsible for supporting long-term business change by working closely with cross-functional business and technology teams to define, map and align processes, policies, technology, and resources in the implementation of the WBG Cloud governance model. Working towards identifying critical change opportunities within different Business and technical Units and perform business case development, requirement definition, policy gap analysis, process work flows, and change management functions. Responsible for supporting a smooth cloud migration of WBG applications through cloud clearance. Supporting teams in successfully migrating their applications to cloud through coordinating with various supporting teams. Responsible for analyzing the data and creating reports to identify, track and report progress to ITS-MT. Responsible for creating a 3-year cloud strategy roadmap by coordinating with LOB’s and application teams. Involved in top down and bottom up analysis of the WBG application landscape to better understand and align cloud migration plans. Identified process gaps and built new processes and gatheird functional & system requirements for implementing the One stop cloud clearance process using RSAM & Service Now. Worked with C level executives in refining the processes and building systems to automate and support the processes. Environment: and tools: AWS, Azure, RSAM, Clarity, MS Visio, MS Office Suite, Service now. Confidential, Framingham, MA Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Worked closely with business users of different departments to gain strong understanding of the existing systems and for requirement gathering, written user stories & use cases for the to-be Salesforce (SFDC) integrated application. Worked with Customer Interaction team for requirement generation by conducting Interviews and JAD sessions. Worked with stakeholders to elicit, analyze, communicate and validate non-functional requirements as related to Business Processes, rules, policies and information systems by conducting Requirement workshops. Converted high level business requirements into specific functional requirements and user stories to communicate them with IT team and managed changes based on their feedback. Conducted User Story Writing Sessions to decompose BRD into User Stories and determine Acceptance Criteria for building Product Increments. Extensively used INVEST model to break down epics in to user stories. Facilitated Vertical slicing of the epics into smaller user stories during Backlog Grooming Meeting. Also, interfaced with development team to clarify requirements throughout. Made sure the stories were Groom Ready and Iteration Ready before every sprint. Assisted in estimating story points for the user stories in Sprint Planning Meeting using Planning Poker. Coordinated configuring the application for users with various job responsibilities and providing appropriate access to data depending on the core area in sales process and job responsibility of the user as per business rules. Helped in TEMPeffective administering and maintaining of all the Sales Users in the Salesforce sales cloud application. Assisted in developing workflow rules, workflow tasks, emails and alerts to track customer related activities. Assisted in configuring various Reports and Dashboards as per the business requirements of the organization. Assisted in Developing Salesforce.com approval workflow with tasks from interview schedules and approvals for further interviews finally resulting into orders and also for faster price quote approvals (CPQ) to close an order. Assisted in Creating users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to manage unique UI and sharing access among different users of salesforce cloud. Imported data from excel sheets in to Recruiters, Candidates, Leads, Opportunities, Accounts, Contacts and Projects using Import Wizard and Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com Objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from Comma Separated Values (CSV) files. Executed Salesforce Functional Test cases as per the test plan in coordination with QA team & application teams to execute End-to-End test cases and monitored the test results to confirm the requirements using RTM document. Prepared conceptual and logical data models for data entities to streamline batch migration of data from Siebel. Worked in designing Apex web services and Force.com API’s to integrate systems in real time. Coordinated the scheduled batch migration & ETL of data from Siebel CRM using informatica PowerCenter. Prepared training material in noledge center and trained the end users to promote user adaption of system. Environment: and tools: Agile (Scrum), Salesforce.com, Apex, Visual Force, Data Loader, Conga Composer, Salesforce1, XML, MS VISIO, UML, MS-Office, Informatica Cloud, Informatica PowerCenter, Jitterbit, Force.com, Data.com, Siebel CRM, SOAP, HTTP, REST Bulk API, SAP MDG, Tableau, Eclipse IDE. Confidential, Wilmington, DE Business Systems Analyst / Scrum Master Responsibilities: Created and managed re-engineering of BPM to in corporate Scrum to address the volatile requirements. Identified the requirements through as-is analysis and working closely with the stakeholders and documented requirements in user story format and acceptance criteria with the help of the team and PO. Helped product owner in prioritization of Product Backlog Items (PBIs) including the process of breaking down EPICS into user stories using INVEST criteria with the help of the development team. Created User Stories and led the Planning Poker to estimate them in Sprint Planning and Backlog Grooming meetings. Also, helped PO to prioritize user stories based on business value using MoSCoW. Facilitated and time-boxed Scrum ceremonies. Helped negotiating commitments and assured parallel understanding of requirements and deliverables amongst team members in Sprint Planning Meetings. Used CA Agile Central (Rally) TEMPeffectively for sprint planning, maintaining Product back log, sprint backlog, conduct daily scrum, test case management, capacity planning, velocity planning and tracked progress of the sprint through burn down charts and project progress through burn up charts. Assured development team TEMPhas necessary resources to sprint, tracked and removed impediments timely. Assisted in creating Test cases, Test Scenarios & created Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM). Handled requirement churn during the project by performing Impact Analysis by checking the feasibility in maintaining the triple constraint of the project and discussing them in Daily Scrum. Created mock-ups to show the business users the UI well in advance to be approved. Experienced in assisting Web service teams to create a real time request/response pattern for case management. Used force.com API’s to setup a web service call using XML. Coordinated project activities between on-shore and offshore team in India for scrum implementation. Extensively involved in thin vertical slicing of the Epics into smaller user stories during backlog grooming meetings and Sprint Planning meetings with cross-functional development team. Communicated strategies, and capacity planning and velocity planning to the Project Management. Made sure the user stories were broken down into tasks by using the SMART technique. Analyzed the Iteration Burn Down Charts and solved impediments for the scrum team and reviewed defects. Provided weekly status reports to project management office (PMO) and ensured achieving release deadlines. Worked closely with Product owner and other stakeholders to document the business requirements. Actively involved with the development team in creating custom objects and rules in SFDC for users. TEMPEffective use of IBM Cognos to create dashboards and reports for case management. Led Sales force functional testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and obtained user sign off after testing, when required. Interfaced primarily with Functional Users during deployments for the feedback on ease of usage. Managed test cases using HP ALM and helped QA team in performing Black box testing, Regression testing, smoke testing. Arranged walkthroughs sessions with the user groups after each deployment. Involved in defect triages in Root Cause Analysis for the defects raised during the testing. Created training curriculum and wrote training scripts to help users and for future trainings. Environment: and tools: Agile (Scrum), HP ALM, Rally, Eclipse IDE, Salesforce.com, Apex, MS VISIO, UML, Gap Analysis, MS-Office, IBM Cognos, SOA, Force.com, API’s, App exchange, Visual force. Confidential, Dimondale, MI Sr. Business Analyst/Scrum Master Responsibilities: Understood state of art processes by interacting with stakeholders and documents analysis and performed GAP analysis to assist Product Owner and Project Manager in planning the transition. Facilitated JAD sessions as Moderator and conducted interviews with various Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) and stakeholders, process reviews and policy & procedure reviews to elicit requirements. Prepared Business Requirement Document (BRD/HLD) and assisted preparation of Functional Specifications Document (FSD). Analyzed, modified and validated these documents. Assisted in creating Process Flow diagrams to demonstrate the working of various modules of the system. Assisted Data Modeling process by creating Conceptual and Logical ER diagrams. Created Use Cases and built Use Case Diagram and Activity Diagram using MS Visio. Managed and tracked requirements using HP ALM 11.0Xthrough Application Life-Cycle. Worked with UX team to create a unique user experience for the User interface (UI). Performed Data Mining to find correlation and pattern in existing data and constructed SQL queries. Worked with QA team to design and develop Test Plan and Test Cases to perform User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Functional Testing. Created Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) ensuring requirements are met in all the phases of the project and testing strategy incorporates a detailed check on all requirements. Performed Data Mining to find correlation and pattern in existing data. Involved in implementation by assisting in the preparation of training module. Helped the end users getting accustomed to the system by live demonstrations and system tutorials. Timely tracked progress and reported it to Product Owner and Project Manager. Environment: and tools: Scrum, HP ALM, MS Office Visio, PowerPoint, Word, Excel, Project, Microsoft SQL, Informatica PowerCenter v9.x, Wireframes, Mock-Up Screens, SharePoint (2010), UML, UAT Testing. Confidential, Richfield, MN Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: TEMPEffectively coached the team for following scrum framework and help understand the TEMPeffectiveness with the help of interactive Scrum Workshops. Promoted self-organization through out the project by TEMPeffectively handling impediments and Retrospective meetings. Conducted As-Is analysis and documented the requirements and converted them in to user stories. Conducted interviews with the business users and facilitated JAD sessions and requirement workshops to identify and analyze the reports dat the business users need and documented using use cases and user stories. Worked closely with Product Owner and in requirement gathering and facilitated story writing sessions to write user stories and build a product backlog. Helped team vertically slice epics in to user stories and user stories in sprint backlog in to tasks Facilitated Scrum ceremonies including Daily scrum, Sprint planning, Backlog refinement, Sprint review, and Sprint retrospectives. Used JIRA to TEMPeffectively track issues, calculate velocity and plan capacity and release planning. Helped PMO in release planning in Sprint Zero using JIRA and also helped team understand concepts of velocity, capacity, sprints, backlog, product increment, potentially shippable, focus factor & Burn downs. Helped team use estimation techniques and introduced the concept of story points and estimation using Fibonacci series. Used retrospective techniques such as silent writing and happiness histogram to make team comfortable. TEMPEffectively handled organizational impediments and team impediments as well. Served as a servant leader and liaison between team and product owner to TEMPeffectively deliver PSPI. Worked closely with Business users in understanding requirements and help team understand requirements. Environment: and tools: Scrum, JIRA, SAP MM, SAP BO, HP ALM, Eclipse IDE, SOAP, XML, MySQL Workbench. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Elicited requirements by conducting meetings with key stakeholders, end users and other SMEs. Conducted and facilitated JAD sessions to extensively elicit requirements from stakeholders. Conduct document analysis to identify the existing data flows and inventory management mechanism. Part of gap analysis team in conducting business process Gap Analysis between To-Be design and SAP standard Business Processes, and made recommendations for Process Improvement. Created a data-mapping document to ensure AS400 data is mapped to SAP MM. Created ER-Diagrams for data modeling to create master data in SAP MM. Authored Use cases based on the business requirements and briefed the development team accordingly. Authored & maintained Functional Speciation Document (FSD), System requirement specification (SRS) Assisted in Migration of data from AS400 to SAP MM through ETL Process using informatica power center. Co-created Knowledge transfer document for training the end users to use the new system. Acted as a liaison between stakeholders and technical teams to bridge the gap in understanding. Drive execution through project managers for on time, within budget deliverables. Daily project health status check & taking action against variances, problems solved at the right time. Manage stakeholder expectations, made sure communication was not a hindrance. Handled the requirements churn TEMPeffectively during phases of SDLC by doing an impact analysis and prepared change request document to be approved by Change control board. Worked closely with QA team in developing and executing test cases based on test scenarios & test plan. Responsible for functional testing and UAT testing based on Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM). Worked closely with deployment team and monitored system behavior in production environment. Created ad-hoc reports using tableau for TEMPeffective visibility of data to identify the inventory movement. Environment: and tools used: Waterfall, Eclipse IDE, PL/SQL, HP QC, MS VISIO, MS Project, My SQL workbench, AS400, SAP MM, Informatica Power Centre, Tableau Confidential Jr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Used MS Visio to document the existing business processes to help understand and analyze the requirements. Facilitated and conducted requirement workshops & documented complete and meaningful use cases. Conducted extensive interviews with the stakeholders to capture requirements. Maintained Functional Specifications Document (FSD) and System Requirements Specification (SRS). Worked as a liaison between business and technical teams. Created mock-ups for the UI and assisted UX team in developing the UI with good aesthetics. Helped development team understand the requirements and monitor the development is in-line with Business Requirements. Worked with the product team to identify the display patterns and live updates to the website. Monitored the offline and online store match while business logic, policies and rules remain the same. Help train the in-house employees in updating the products and offerings on the go. Assisted the in bridging the gap between UI, middleware and Database teams to better coordinate. Prepared RTM (Requirement Traceability Matrix) and mapped with test cases to identify if all the requirements are covered. Assisted in enforcement of project deadlines and schedules. Assisted in User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and responsible for Functional Testing. Assisted in deployment and monitored the system behavior after it went live for any maintenance. Environment: Waterfall, Eclipse IDE, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, JSP, XML, Web Sphere, DB2, HP QC, MS VISIO, MS Project, My SQL workbench. Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Actively participated in understanding business requirements and functional requirements from BRD. Has developed a low-level design for features such as Document Creation, Container Creation and Document Relocation. Handled assignments in developing UI pages using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript technologies for modules in DBMS. Application developed in MVC architecture using Struts, JSP, Ajax, HTML, Java Script, CSS, JMS and Hibernate. Involved in development and deploy the Presentation and Web Tiers based on Struts Frame Work using Java, JSP, XML, Action Beans and Action Classes. Involved in implementing Value Object Pattern, MVC & Singleton Pattern. Updated the required data in the DB2 database to save and update the database using hibernate, corresponding to actions performed in the struts class. Involved in testing of application on various levels like Unit, Integration and System testing by utilizing various methodologies. Involved in drawing the UML diagrams such as Use case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose. Deployment of the application in the Web Logic Application server Environment: Waterfall, HTML, JSP, CSS, Ajax, JMS, Visual Studio, MS VISIO, MS Project and PL/SQL, Rational Rose. 