SUMMARY: 4+ years of experience in managing and executing multiple tasks and assignments, Earned Value Management (EVM) and creating use cases and workflows. Used various indicators, such as schedule variance, cost variance, schedule performance index and cost performance index. Worked on Waterfall and Agile methodologies. Strong experience in business and data analysis, data governance, data profiling, data migration, data mining, data cleansing, data conversion, data visualization, data quality, data integration, master data management, metadata management services and configuration management. Success in a sales environment and domain expertise in Insurance industry Worked on IT procurement, which included providing services, managing suppliers and developing purchasing strategies, which met budgetary and other operational requirements. Proficient in preparing presentations, graphs, pivot tables using Microsoft Excel and PowerPoint Writing complex SQL queries for data validation for verifying the SSIS Packages and business Rules. Anticipating and identifying issues and risk Managing design session scheduling and active stakeholder representation in sprints. Worked in a Business process re - engineering environment as per system needs. Experience in various phases of Software Development life cycle (Analysis, Requirements gathering, Designing) with expertise in documenting various requirement specifications, functional specifications, Test Plans, Source to Target mappings, T- SQL Joins. Experience in data analysis, data validation, data cleansing, data standardization, data verification and identifying data mismatch. Excellent testing experience in all phases and stages of software testing life cycle and software development life cycle (SDLC) with good working knowledge of testing methodologies, disciplines, tasks, resources and scheduling. Very good understanding of data warehousing concepts, data analysis, data warehouse architecture and designing. Used most of the SQL Functions including character functions, number functions, date functions and conversion functions Queried various joins and sub queries. Coordinated various teams and projects as a scrum master. Good experience in data sources, data profiling, data validation, developing low level design patterns based on the business and functional requirements. Created Data Mapping document after each assignment and wrote the transformation rules for each field as applicable. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems:  Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, UNIX, Linux, MAC OS Languages:  T-SQL, Pl/SQL, Perl, Python, Unix Shell Scripting Web & Interface Technologies:  HTML, XML Scripting Languages: HTML, CSS Reporting tools:  SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Reports, Business Objects, MicroStrategy Data Modelling:  Designer 2000, Monarch Microsoft Suite:  MS Visio, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Outlook, MS Access Database, MS Power point Data warehousing:  Data Mining, DataMart, OLAP, OLTP, Data Profiler, IBM Infosphere PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Dublin, OH  Business Analyst Responsibilities: Requirement analysis, profitability analysis, data analysis, project forecasting and gap analysis of various source systems Collecting, compiling, tracking and analyzing recurring project performance metrics and provide detailed reports, charts and graphs Preparing briefs, presentations, technical documentation and diagrams in a clear format to support management initiatives Provided support to the client in planning and implementing earned value management processes and integrated tools. Meetings with software developers, project managers, architects and software testers Performed data validation with data profiling and data handling. Documentation work on BRD, User guides. Maintaining a database of changes and suggestions to approved and pending designs Worked on creating UML modelling. Created models for calculating cost and capacity of the teams in an organization. Conducted grooming session with the business team to provide the requirements also did an in-depth analysis of the requirements Worked with Micro-Strategy data visualization. Handling training sessions using webinars to demonstrate newly developed software application for the users and client. Was acting as scrum master to coordinate team and facilitating capacity as required. Used SAS technologies for business intelligence and reporting purposes. Designed reports in word, Access, Excel using advanced functions not limited to VLOOKUP, pivot tables, formulae. Used SQL to validate the Data going in to the Data Warehouse. Created User stories to Jira, stacked up the backlog, added the actors, plugged in the requirements. Conducted Scrum meeting and made sure the scope of the Sprint is set to right level. Environment: Toad for Oracle 11, MS-Office 2013, SharePoint, MS Outlook, Skype for Business, Tableau 10.2, R, SharePoint, Repository Intake Tools, Reporting Intake Tool, Jira-Agile, Python. Confidential, New York  Jr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Worked on Requirement Analysis and Data Analysis of various source systems Conducted JAD sessions to different stakeholders such as editorials, designers, etc., Performed Business Process mapping for new requirements. Performed Data Validation with Data profiling and data handling. Collaborated with project stakeholders in sprint planning meetings throughout all SDLC Used SQL, PL/SQL to validate the Data going in to the Data Warehouse. Created Flow charts, Use Cases, scenarios, Data Flow Diagrams using MS Visio explaining complete business flow and evaluated the same with technical team, and helped the development team understand the business needs and maneuver the development process. Evaluating data mining request requirements and help develop the queries for the requests. Conducted UAT for multiple iterations by writing Test Cases and signed off the same after approval Hands-on experience in Manual Back End Testing using SQL. Worked on Metadata Management and its processes. Responsible for creating the Requirements Traceability Matrix. Verified and maintained Data Quality, Integrity, data completeness and business logic. Extensively used SQL queries to check storage and accuracy of data in database tables with relational databases. Environment: UML, Excel, PowerPoint, Tableau Test Cases, Assistant, Teradata V2R6, Teradata SQL Assistant, IDQ, Unix, Quality Center, TOAD, HP Quality Center 10, Agile Confidential Jr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Worked on Requirement Analysis and Data Analysis of various source systems Conducted JAD sessions to different stakeholders such as editorials, designers, etc., Performed Business Process mapping for new requirements. Performed Data Validation with Data profiling and data handling. Collaborated with project stakeholders in sprint planning meetings throughout all SDLC Used SQL, PL/SQL to validate the Data going in to the Data Warehouse. Created Flow charts, Use Cases, scenarios, Data Flow Diagrams using MS Visio explaining complete business flow and evaluated the same with technical team, and helped the development team understand the business needs and maneuver the development process. Designed reports in Excel using advanced functions not limited to VLOOKUP, pivot tables and formulae. Used SQL to validate the Data going in to the Data Ware House. Reviewing and suggesting changes (if any) to design documentation. Prepared Business Requirement Documentation and Functional Documentation. Primarily responsible for coordinating between stake holders, developers and testers. Creating complex data analysis queries to troubleshoot issues reported by users. Confidential Data Analyst Responsibilities: Worked on a location-based, augmented-reality mobile game called “Niantic Ingress”, which has a science-fiction back story with a continuous open narrative. Involved working on the Niantic GeoStore tool Required documenting changes, player interactions and provided suggestions on how to improve the game further The ability to find fake users and block them from playing the game again To play the game personally and create as many valid portals as possible Participated in data quality control and validation Examined user operations inquiries Conducted few training sessions to new employees in the absence of POC Environment: MS Suite, Outlook, Niantic GeoStore and Google translate 