SUMMARY A Dynamic and result oriented Business Analyst professional with 7+ years of experience in achieving operational efficiency and increasing revenue across various domains like Banking & Finance. Business Process Improvement, Data Analysis and asset management expert. Employs root cause analysis to identify issues and develop process improvements, Exceptional planning and implementation capabilities. Business Analyst with nearly 7+ years of experience in Banking & Finance industries in business process analysis and modelling, business requirements gathering, database design and development of Web Based, and Client/Server applications. Expertise in SDLC methodologies like Waterfall, Agile - Scrum, Waterfall-Scrum Hybrid and RUP. Comprehensive knowledge in Merger & Acquisitions, International Finance, Corporate Finance, Bonds, Options, OTC Derivatives, Mutual Funds, Portfolio Analysis and Management, Capital Markets, and Financial Statements. In-depth knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), having thorough understanding of various phases such as Requirements, Analysis/Design, Development and Testing. Extensive experience in Gathering Requirements, analyzing them, Data modelling, Business Process Flows, Implementation Plans, writing Business Requirements Document (BRD), Use Case Specification Document, Functional Requirement Document (FRD), Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), Data Dictionary, Disaster Recovery, SWOT Analysis. Have made Reviews and comments on "As Is" and "To Be" business process work flows. Experience in developing QA test cases, test scenario and leading towards UAT and Beta Testing for ensuring the application's successfulness. Knowledge of business structures with the ability to create KYC evidence profiles on a wide range of LE asset classes meeting Global KYC procedure standards (specializing in Fixed Income, Equities and Commodities) ensuring compliance with local and global requirements evidencing ownership thresholds, AML, MiFID, FACTA, FX, CIP, and APAC requirements. Business and systems analysis experience in a financial discipline, preferably working with insurance company separate account valuation, fee collection, and/or mutual fund trading. Ability to gather client requirements, via existing business artifacts, systems documentation, and client interviews, for business process change and communicate those needs to systems personnel via well-written explicit business/ functional requirements(BRD/FRD) documents. Extensive experience in business analysis, GAP analysis, Cost Benefit analysis, risk analysis, testing, development of functional specifications and project planning. Experience on previous conversion or upgrade projects, data feed processing, and multi-platform integration. Knowledge in the ETL (Extract, Transform and Load) with Informatica into a data ware house/date mart and Business Intelligence (BI) tools like Business Objects Modules (Reporter, Supervisor, Designer, and Web Intelligence). Experience with SQL queries for Data analysis and modification. Proficient in developing Behaviour Diagrams (Sequence Diagrams, Collaboration Diagrams, and Activity Diagrams), and Class Diagrams based on UML Methodology using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio. Working experience in writing SQL queries and proficient knowledge of RDBMS concepts. Experienced in conducting JAD sessions, project meetings, reviews and walkthroughs. Experienced in performing GAP analysis by identifying existing application, documenting the enhancements to meet the end-state requirements. Migrates functionality from a mainframe based application to two existing systems within the current Plan Accounting suite Worked in Agile methodology for better and rapid delivery of the business solutions. Working knowledge in creating Test Plans, Test Cases, to ensure Quality Assurance and to test all the business requirements. Defined the test criteria, project schedules and base lined the Test Plan with the halp of project meetings and walkthroughs. Outstanding organizational skills including ability to multitask, prioritize, and manage complex issues. Excellent written, communication and interpersonal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Requirement Management:  MS Project, SharePoint, JIRA, Rally, HP ALM, Confluence, SharePoint, Bitbucket Defect Tracking:  Cucumber, LoadRunner, Selenium, UFT, Postman, Swagger, Test Director, QTP, HPQC Query and Programming:  SQL, HTML ALM Tools:  JIRA, Rally, MS Project, SharePoint Banking and BI Tools:  Axiom SL, Actimize, Tableau Desktop, IBM Cognos, Informatica Power Center, MS Excel Databases:  SQL Server 2008 & 2012, MYSQL, MS Access, HTML Methodologies:  Waterfall, Spiral, RUP, Agile (Scrum, SAFe), Scrum-Waterfall Hybrid Reporting Tools:  Tableau, PowerBI, Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition (OBIEE) Querying Tools:  Toad, Aginity Workbench, SQL Management Studio and Oracle SQL developer PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, O’ Fallon, MO Senior Business Analyst Responsibilities: Instrumental in understanding existing Automated clearing processing system, daily payment processing and analysis of reports, payment distribution, daily reconciliation and balancing. Worked on Transaction Monitoring ofDataQuality andDataLineageof KeyDataElements from data source. Interviewed SMEs and Stakeholders to gather Business Requirements, Functional Requirements, Non-Functional Requirements, Report Specifications, Data Requirements, Data Mappings and Data Flow Diagrams. Conducted JAD sessions with clients, 3rd party vendors, end users, developers and other team members to distinguish presented user requests from the underlying true needs, and distinguished solution ideas from requirements Involved in conducting backlog grooming, stakeholders’ interviews, facilitating team’s weekly meeting, story acceptance and daily Scrum meeting Documented process flows and developed requirements for functional improvements and enhancements using the UML (Unified Modeling Language) methodologies Involved in business modeling using swim lane diagrams in MS Visio, drawing layouts to explain process flows to the developers Performed Gap analysis by identifying existing technologies and documenting to meet the end state requirements. Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and Class Diagrams. Ensured smooth transition from Waterfall to Agile by following team level Scrum adoption techniques like planning, training and coaching. Convinced management to understand the importance of adopting Agile best practices. Instrumental in user story management, issue tracking and requirement traceability using JIRA. Created RACI matrix to identify all relevant stakeholders in the project. Developed workflow diagrams, flow charts and Data Flow diagrams using MS Visio. Collaborated with ETL developers and assisted them to use InformaticaMDM to perform data cleansing using the cleanse functions, applying match and merge, trust and validation rules to create a single version of truth. Assisted in development of ETL jobs in Informatica PowerCenter using various transformation such as Source Qualifier, Aggregator, Expression, Lookup, Filter, Sequence generator, Router, Union, Update strategy etc. Used Power BI and Excel (Pivot Tables, Lookup and Macros) for analyzing and reporting capabilities. Assisted QA Team in testing requests to variousREST APIsinSwagger UIand in documenting the requests and responses usingSwagger editor. Wrote transformation rules, verified data through various data profiling techniques to cleanse during reporting. Created Test Plans, Test Cases, Test Scenarios and conducted Functional/Non-Functional Testing. Used HP LoadRunner for performance testing and measuring system behavior and performance under load to simulate the payment processing process. Environment: MS Visio, Informatica PowerCenter 9.5, Informatica MDM 9.6, Oracle 11g, Excel, Share Point, Fiserv PEP, NACHA formats, MS-Office Suite, HTML, XML, REST API, LoadRunner v12.0, Power BI, Swagger  Confidential, Cincinnati, OH Senior Business Systems Analyst/ Scrum Master Responsibilities: Played key role in System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Process consisting of: Design and Gap Analysis, Business Requirements, Systems Requirements, Test Criteria and Implementation to have the outputs of project dealt with the automation of correspondence directed to Insurance policy owners. Create and manage the infrastructure improvement and capacity plans for Quantitative Risk Management and Polypath applications in Capital Markets. Facilitated Joint Requirement Planning (JRP) sessions with SMEs in understanding the Requirements pertaining to Loan Origination to Loan Processing. Worked on the Team Foundation Server (TFS) to update documents and Master Logical Data elements, turn the Functional Specifications Document to Development Team with Change set and Deliverables. Prepared BRD based on gap analysis and profiling trading activity, securities, transaction types, portfolios, accounts and brokers. Helped in breaking down the BRD into user stories by conducting workshops with the team and defined the acceptance criteria for the user stories and creation of the product backlog on issue tracking tool JIRA. Participate in projects or analysis dat involves working with multiple functions and teams across the Balance Sheet Management, Asset Liability Management, Investment Portfolio, Rate Risk, FTP, Stress Test, and MSR as well others across Treasury and the Bank. Troubleshoot application reliability and performance issues on QRM & Polypath application. Monitor and report operating efficiency, performance, and reliability of applications. Identify opportunities for support process improvement or automation; design and implement those improvements. Ensured business requirements/application functionality is consistent with regulatory mandates from Dodd-Frank Act. Gatheird requirements using Rational Requisite Pro dat included interviews, brainstorms and meetings with stakeholders and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs). Review modifications to applications and act as approval point before applications are placed into production. Provide production support on QRM and Polypath issues/concerns in a challenging and time crunch environment working closely with business, vendor, and data teams to resolve the issues. Participate in early stages of application development life cycle in understanding the changes planned, issues and defects raised and fixed in integration and UAT and performance testing cycles. Followed the UML methodology to generate Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Collaboration Diagrams using Rational Rose. Involved in Database creation and database administration processes like Grant/Revoke privileges on objects, import/export schema using data pump and analyze database objects. In areas such as Fixed Income, Equities, Risk, Order to cash (OTC) Derivatives, Electronic Trading floor applications, Financial reporting using Business Objects, leading and managing Business Process Re-engineering. Monitoring of processes, jobs and logs to ensure data integrity, performance and availability. Record the job failure incident with appropriate severity and priority, coordinate and escalate to closure. Participate in moving the development enhancements and releases to UAT and production environment. Created UML Diagrams including Use Cases Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using Microsoft Visio. To run pre-planning and planning sessions with the stakeholders and team members across different products for each iteration. Formulated XML messages using IFX standards Work with automation team on automating the web-based applications by explaining the business workflow to the automation team. Worked extensively with the QA team for designing Test Plan and Test Cases for the UAT. Environment: Rational Enterprise Suite (Rose), TFS, QTP, QRM, Polypath, RUP, UNIX, Ms-Sql, SQL, SQL Servers, PL/SQL, Oracle, UML, .Net, SSRS, Control-M, Windows Server, AWS.  Confidential, Bakersfield, CA Senior Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted walkthrough with project stakeholders to verify the accuracy of the requirements basing on Anti-Money Laundering Conducted GAP analysis to understand the requirements Conducted elicitation techniques like surveys/questionnaires, brainstorming, client interviewing and document analysis, impact analysis and conducted JAD Sessions with various stakeholders. Was responsible for creating and reviewing process flows, business requirements, functional requirements, project schedules, documentation and test plans Created Use Case Diagrams, and Activity Diagrams using UML modeling tool called OmniGraffle Worked with Development teams in creating wireframes and mock up diagrams Created various types of reports/sub-reports and cross tab reports with bar chart, pie chart and line-chart graph representation reports using Crystal Reports. Participated actively in the interaction of UX, RESTful APIs Used UDDI to identify and study relevant web services and web methods required for the application Documented sample requests, depicting the format of the calls to and from the web service Analyzed business requirements and created business rules for client side validations Organized and facilitated sprint planning, user story writing sessions, reviews, retrospectives, demos Facilitated the process of orchestration by providing process flow diagram in order to automate the business process. Made sure dat the new regulation is followed for the Traditional and Roth IRAs Designed the Test Plan and Test Cases for the processes. Made sure dat the ERISA act was followed Responsible for halping write the user manuals. Alsocreated artifacts like BRD, FRD, and SRS Tracked the progress of the project using Rally and continuously monitoring of scope creep at all stages Acted as a gatekeeper for all the defects in the testing phase, logged and analyzed defects using HP-ALM Organized Triage calls to resolve conflicts as well as to work out defects identified in testing Maintained artifacts such as Sprint burn down, Product burn down chart, and defect logs, which in turn assisted in velocity and capacity calculation for superior planning of upcoming sprints Scripted business rules for the web service, and assisted in drafting agreements for various web methods in XML Worked with the product owner and development team in deciding and negotiating the definition of done and acceptance criteria for Potentially Shippable Product Increment (PSPI) Acted as a liaison between the technical staff and the users (staff and management). Also, was responsible for communications between Project Team and other related departments Conducted functional walkthroughs, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) sessions, and supervised the development of User Manuals for customers Environment: Scrum, MS Word, MS SharePoint, MS Excel, MS Visio, Tableau, OmniGraffle, XML, HTML, UML, HP-ALM, MS Power Point, SQL, CA Agile  Confidential, Malvern, PA  Senior Business Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted interviews & JAD sessions with stakeholders to collect business requirements. This information along with the vision document was used to transform business requirements into System Requirements Specifications (SRS). Interacted with the stakeholders to review & baseline the design documents. Analyzed the prior documentation and business processes for full understanding of the project. Documented Business Requirement Document (BRD) and Functional Requirement Document (FRD). Developed a good understanding of the various financial instruments such as equities, bonds, money market instruments and Asset/portfolio allocation, trading life cycle and portfolio diversification. Interacted with Financial Analysts to understand Fundamental analysis, Financial models to calculate Expected Return, Market Risk and Portfolio Risk of the portfolio to be used in Analytical tools. Used IBM Cognos reporting and Excel (Pivot Tables, Lookups and Macros) for reporting and analyzing the portfolio performance and fixed income analytics such as NAV, P&L, Asset Allocation and Cash Flows. Created various types of reports with bar chart, pie and line-chart graph reports for analytics using Tableau. Created User Stories and led the Planning Poker game to estimate them in Sprint Planning and Backlog Grooming meetings. Helped in estimation and prioritization of the user stories using Relative Mass Evaluation and MOSCOW. Assisted Project Manager in Project planning and work breakdown structure using MS Project. Highly proficient in writing User stories, creating Use Cases, Use case diagrams, Workflow Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using tools such as MS Visio. Identified source table, target table and mapped the data using MS Excel of various Portfolios, transactions and securities into Data warehouse and Data Marts using Informatica Power Center Designer, Repository Manager, Workflow Manager and Workflow Monitor, which halped in better understanding of the client data. Designed Quality Plans, Quality Reports, and Test Summary reports and logged down defects using JIRA. Tracked the defects using HP ALM and managed an error repository with the QA team. Experience working in Three-Tier architecture, Ajax, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI). Gatheird requirements for Client-Side Validation, and Server-Side Validation. Tested through SOAP UI; API Documentation in MS Excel. Performed various SQL queries for relevant data retrieval on Oracle database using Select, Join and View queries. Assisted Regression Testing, Interface Testing (SOAPUI) and Black box Testing. Created Test Cases, Test Plans, Test strategies, Test Scenarios and conducted Manual Tests in HP Quality Center. Environment: SDLC, Scrum waterfall Hybrid, MS project 2013, MS office 2013, MS Visio, UML, Java, Morningstar, Bloomberg B-pipe, Oracle 11g, JIRA, Rally, Informatica PowerCenter v9.6.0x, Web services, Oracle Database,, HTML5.0, CSS 3.0, JavaScript, HP QC 10.0,Tableau 9.0. 