SUMMARY Over 8 years of diverse experience as a Senior Business Analyst in managing Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as per Agile framework and Waterfall methodology Industry/Domain experience: Finance, Airlines, e - Commerce, Telecom, Human Resources, Consulting Proficient in creating Product Backlog, writing Themes, EPICs, User Stories and Acceptance Criteria Experienced in converting/decomposing requirements into agile specific epics and user stories Adept in managing Product Backlog, Sprint Backlog; and coordinating Agile ceremonies (Sprint Planning/Grooming, Daily Stand Up, Sprint Review & Sprint Retrospective) Proficient in creating and understanding Burndown Charts, determining Team Velocity, user story sizing techniques (Fibonacci Series, T-Shirt sizing), Pair Programming, Test-Driven Development Familiarity with Kanban, Extreme Programming (XP) High level of proficiency in working with Rally and familiarity with Jira Familiar with agile transformation and agile training within team Proficient in delivering high quality Business Requirement Documents (BRD) Skilled in writing Functional Requirements, and creating Use Cases for multiple scenarios Experienced in creating innovative Wireframes and Prototypes via MS Visio, to drive requirement elicitation sessions and obtain buy-in from clients and stakeholders Proficient in creating Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM), tracing test cases > use cases > functional requirements > business requirements Assisted in creating Test Cases/Scripts and coordinating User Acceptance Testing (UAT) Working noledge of Manual Testing Strong experience in Business Process Re-engineering (BPR) Solid experience in eliciting requirements via One-on-One sessions, Group discussions, Brainstorming sessions, Surveys, Scenarios, Email communication/follow-up, Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions and Questionnaire Development Highly experienced in performing GAP Analysis and creating GAP Fit models for Off-Teh-Shelf (OTS) products Advanced level of proficiency in creating process flow diagrams using MS Visio Highly experienced in working with cross-functional and cross-cultural teams Highly experienced in managing and coordinating with onsite, offsite, onshore and offshore teams Experience working in fast-paced, tech savvy and professional environments Possess exceptional problem solving, analytical thinking, quick learning and decision-making skills Strong work ethic with excellent verbal, written communication, and interpersonal skills Proven track record in meeting tight deadlines and staying calm under pressure in stressful circumstances TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: Windows XP/Vista 7, Windows 7, Windows 8 Requirement Management Tools: Rally, IBM Rational Rose, IBM RequisitePro, Jira, MS Visio Content Management: MS SharePoint 2007, 2010, 2013 Modeling Languages: Unified Modeling Language (UML), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOA), Object Oriented Design (OOD) SDLC Methodologies: Agile (SCRUM), Waterfall Business Intelligence: SQL server reporting services Packages: MS Office, MS Visio, MS Project, MS Access, MS Outlook Taleo, Lotus Notes, Computer Telephony Integration (CTI), NICE, Interactive Voice Response (IVR), Automatic Call Distributor (ACD), Predictive Dialer PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Dallas, TX AGILE SENIOR BUSINESS ANALYST Responsibilities: Conducted one on one meetings with various stake holders and subject matter experts (SMEs) to understand high level business functionality to create a high-level product backlog. Performed a GAP Analysis by analyzing teh current state (As Is) and desired enhancements (To Be) and communicated teh same to business to ensure common understanding as it related to teh application. Facilitated large group meetings with various representatives of business and departments to prioritize teh product backlog and ensure dat features and functionalities dat yielded teh highest value were placed Confidential teh top of teh product backlog. Partnered and met with other Business Analysts and project representatives to ensure dat dependencies and risks were identified and devised a proper risk mitigation plan. Partnered with user experience (UX) team to explain desired business functionalities to ensure dat proper wire frames could also be developed and delivered as per desired timeline. Clearly communicated project status to business stake holders and also sought continuous feedback to ensure changes could be incorporated quickly. Created Epics and positioned them in teh product backlog as per business priority. Decomposed teh Epics into user stories following INVEST criteria and created acceptance criteria for each user story. Met with scrum team during sprint pre-planning meetings to ensure dat team understood teh business ask and also fine-tuned teh user stories based on feedback received from team. Participated in Sprint Backlog Grooming meetings to ensure dat scrum team understood teh sprint goals, answered questions during ‘Wat Meeting’, and assigned story points with teh halp of teh scrum team during ‘How Meeting.’ Participated in teh Sprint Review/Demo meetings and evaluated teh work done by scrum team based on teh agreed upon definition of done. Participated in teh Sprint Retrospective meetings and encouraged scrum team to provide feedback to improve work quality and build a strong team. Environment: MS Office, MS Visio, Rally, MS SharePoint, Outlook Confidential, Richardson, TX SENIOR BUSINESS ANALYST Responsibilities: Worked as a liaison among stakeholders and IT community in order to elicit, analyze, communicate and validate requirements for changes to business processes, policies and information systems. Performed an analysis of teh current checkout process, created teh As-Is process flow, and reviewed it with teh Business Lead. Created business process flow diagrams using MS Visio as teh basis for understanding teh end-to-end business process. Utilized a wide range of elicitation methods such as focus sessions, one-on-one interviews, and job shadowing to gather and elaborate requirements, and to understand teh must-have and desired functionalities for teh new system. Partnered with teh architects to understand teh high-level overview of teh proposed solution. Exercised strong analytical and project management skills, including a thorough understanding of how to interpret business needs and translate them into requirements. Implemented teh requirements process dat translated user needs into functional specifications including teh establishment of standards, use-cases, templates, and critical processes (me.e. requirements, change control, and requirements traceability). Led requirements analysis and verification ensuring dat requirement statements were complete, consistent, concise, comprehensible, feasible, traceable, verifiable, and dat they comply with standards. Proactively communicated and collaborated with stakeholders to analyze information needs and functional requirements and delivered teh following artifacts as needed: Functional requirements and Business Requirements Document, Use Cases. Demonstrated in-depth understanding of Business Analysis fundamentals; including requirement gathering, stakeholder collaboration, negotiation, functional design and system testing. Developed Use Cases and identified alternate flows and exception conditions. Co-ordinated with other business analysts engaged in teh project to identify dependencies. Participated in usability testing activities to study teh best course of action for product display. Co-ordinated with design team and stake holders to finalize teh layout of teh pages. Coordinated with content writers to finalize contents dat should go on each page. Coordinated with offshore development team to answer questions related to teh requirements. Assisted test teams to write test cases by answering business scenarios and use cases; worked with QA team to develop system test plans, and validated dat business asks were fully covered. Actively participated in user acceptance testing (UAT) and explained business functionalities to user groups. Documented requirements related to display of credit decisions and teh improved checkout process flow. Assisted teh Business Lead in coordinating with various teams, such as UX, Development, QA, and UAT. Provided weekly project status updates to teh Business Lead and Project Manager. Environment: MS Office, MS Visio, MS SharePoint, Outlook Confidential, Fort Lauderdale, FL IT BUSINESS ANALYST Responsibilities: Performed internet-based research to study and understand best practices for website redesign. Defined and documented problem definition, project scope and objective through meetings with stakeholders. Met one-on-one with multiple stakeholders to create a high-level draft of teh desired features and functionalities. Managed teh requirements development process through teh elicitation, analysis, verification of multiple levels of requirements from an end-to-end perspective and supported teh ongoing management of teh requirements. Created a Product Backlog based on teh high-level draft of features and functionalities. Facilitated working sessions involving representatives from various departments to prioritize teh product backlog. Formulated MVP and obtained buy-in from teh Product Owner. Partnered with teh Product Owner to decompose teh Epics into user stories. Wrote acceptance criteria for each user story. Participated and assisted in facilitating scrum ceremonies such as sprint planning, daily standup, sprint review and sprint retrospective. Coordinated with teh user experience (UX) team to develop wireframes and facilitated meetings with teh Product Owner to obtain objective feedback to finalize wireframes. Assisted project manager to halp in release planning. Partnered with scrum master to organize scrum related training sessions for teh entire team. Provided daily report to teh product owner about project progress. Environment: MS Office - MS Word, MS Excel, MS Sharepoint, MS Visio, MS PowerPoint, Rally Confidential, Atlanta, GA AGILE BUSINESS ANALYST Responsibilities: Critically evaluated information gathered from multiple sources, reconciled conflicts, decomposed high-level information into details, and distinguished user requests from teh underlying true needs. Analyzed teh functions of teh legacy POS system to better understand teh users’ pain-points. Preformed a GAP Analysis listing teh As-Is existing functionalities and teh To-Be anticipated improvements of teh POS system and presented to leadership to finalize project scope. Met one-on-one, sent questionnaires, and facilitated group meetings with multiple stake holders to obtain inputs for requirements and better understand teh requested functions dat were required in teh new POS system. Captured, clarified, and translated business requirements into documentation and conceptual design to be translated into teh product backlog. Documented detailed functional and non-functional requirements and business rules in user stories and acceptance criteria. Acted as liaison between business stakeholders and scrum team. Created and managed product backlog by constantly adding and prioritizing product backlog items based on business value; and generated user stories by breaking down epics. Explained business ask and answered questions to scrum team during sprint planning and grooming sessions. Participated in daily scrum meetings to stay abreast with project progress, and also participated in sprint review sessions to ensure sprint deliverables were as per business ask. Closely coordinated with scrum master to ensure scrum team was working without impediments and all questions raised by team was answered in a timely fashion. Coordinated in wireframe creation and obtained approval from leadership. Participated in test case development by answering questions related to acceptance criteria. Participated in user acceptance testing UAT by explaining product functionalities to end users. Helped in writing user manuals for each module for teh POS. Environment: MS Office - MS Word, MS Excel, MS Visio, MS Sharepoint, Rally, Outlook, Nokia Lumina 820 Device, Microsoft Dynamics AX 