SUMMARY: Very good hands on experience on teh 3 fulfillment cycles of Silicon Valley i.e. Product, License software and service. Substantial industry experience in ERP, NPI, Merger Acquisitions’ (M/A), MDM and CRM implementations, including global rollouts. Project management including functional study of business process, documentation, mapping, design, testing, deployment, implementation and support. Involved in charter, scoping, scheduling and budgeting. Also managed projects using Agile environment scrum Led and managed migrations of various other ERP’s like Mfg - Pro, Syteline, JD Edwards onto Oracle. Migration included Item, Customer, and Sales Orders. EXPERIENCE: Confidential, Santa Clara, Ca Project Manager  Responsibilities: To roll out teh Flexera software licensing system and its integration to Oracle EBS To migrate teh acquired company’s system to current Salesforce salescloud Confidential, San Jose, Ca Project manager Responsibilities: Prepared teh project charter and scope. Managed teh resources and teh project for successful completion. Partnered with teh business end users for teh mapping of functional requirements, prototype teh solution and pilot. Worked on teh organization change management plan and its implementation. Led meetings with business and technical teams for solution design and issues prioritization and resolution. Worked with teams for teh migration data upload and integrations with external systems. Responsible for driving teh test cycles CRP, UAT with business, teh cutover migration, go-live and teh support. Led teh analysis, mapping and design for teh Cisco salesrep credit system reengineering. It also involved teh consolidation to one Cisco hierarchy for salesreps, for direct and channel sales. Worked with a team of business stakeholders to scope and freeze teh requirements, prepare teh schedule, teh Analysts for teh functional solution design and technical leads for teh technical design. Aligned teh overall resources to teh various tracks. Drove teh test cycles with technical team. Confidential, Palo Alto, Ca IT Project Manager  Responsibilities: Teh scope of teh project was to do away with isupplier and integrate teh OKS -Oracle service contracts module with an external portal, Ostore, for electronic renewals for software license and support. A customer would be able to login to teh portal and accept or decline a contract. This was a two way integration, wherein quote renewal data is published from Oracle Service contracts to teh portal and later teh acceptance or decline signal is sent back from teh Ostore portal to OKS. Involved in driving teh requirements with business. Scoped/Documented teh solution design. Worked with teh IT technical team for teh integration design and teh QA /Business for teh testing and go live. 11.5.10 migration: Migration of Oracle ERP to 11.5.10 which also involved testing of teh various systems integrated with Oracle OM like Custom shipping, SMA for order status, Tradesphere and Supply Chain Systems. Confidential, Sunnyvale, California. IT Project Manager Responsibilities: Creation of Backend adjustment Sales orders via XL. Here teh XL is loaded in temp table and after validations Order import API is called. This automated teh manual Order entry process saving users valuable time. Scheduling and invoicing of service contracts: Based on rules provided for CORE, Next Day, Service Day service scheduling and invoicing was automated Sicily: Mapping of new kind of subscriptions for fulfillment onto Oracle. SCMC (CRM for contracts) to Oracle OM Integration: For service renewals teh quotes were brought over to oracle as pre-entered and tan booked in Oracle. Also a reverse integration was done where after order was booked, teh SCMC quotes were made contracts. Vastera: Export compliance software and its integration with Oracle OM and Shipping OM default rules and Advance pricing using modifiers for quick entry. Agile to oracle integration for teh item master. This simplified teh New product introduction (NPI) process. Involved with endusers in understanding requirements, and giving suggestions for various process improvements Managed teh project schedule, scope and cost, using onsite resources. Prepare a communication plan for teh projects, which halped in teh monitoring Prepare teh proposed solution flow document, design document and teh test cases for business sign off. Call/drove meetings with various cross functional business partners to arrive at a decision and move forward