SUMMARY Years of professional experience in Ecommerce,Healtcare,Banking as a Business system Analyst. Strong understanding of construction projects and operations. Extensive experience in analyzing and requirements gathering and writing system functional specifications including use cases. Created several templates, reports and queries in Business Warehouse as part of the simplification process Excellent in Developing and evaluating business process Models. Strong experience in RUP Business Modeling process. Connoisseur in documenting Business Requirements Document (BRDs), Functional Requirements Document (FRDs), Non - Functional Requirements Documents, Use Cases, Test Cases and User Interface Prototypes Fluent in ecommerce platforms (Oracle ATG commerce and Comergent), ERP systems (JD Edwards EnterpriseOne, SAP), CRM (Siebel), ETL tools (Informatica), Middleware (OFM), Content Management systems (Adobe CQ, Oracle EM), Oracle Endeca for Guided search and Navigation and Analytics/Reporting tools (Tableau) Experience Financial, Statistical & Business Intelligence Reporting: Crystal Reports, SAP, Business Objects, Excel, & SSRS (horizontal markets- finance, billing, resources, metrics, B2B, B2C, process improvement, operations) Creating daily reports and tasks efficiently. Member of 2 projects which spans multiple departments - Coordinating with different stakeholders for handover4 and migration of processes,Excel, Microsoft Access, Crystal Reports, Raisers Edge, SQL Server 2012, Office 365, PL/SQL, Windows, Power BI Attend key meetings, both internal and external, and report findings from the meetings. Design and develop models for econometric and quantitative analysis around product. Analyze and assess data usage and product performance for maintenance prioritization and compliance with service level agreements. Utilized advanced MS Excel to manipulate data and support DSS - Decision Support Systems Experience in using Unified Modeling Language (UML) for creating Use Case Diagrams, Business Process Model, Class Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and work flow diagrams Hands-on experience on Tableau Desktop, Tableau Reader and Tableau Server First-hand experience in Waterfall and Agile (Scrum) methodology of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Driving multiple JAD sessions to capture the business needs vs wants Solid understanding of Business Process definition, Risk Analysis and SDLC methodologies. Promodel, MS Excel, MS Access, MS Visio, technical assessment tools, Micro Strategy Data Warehouse Data Modeling and Design. Experience Financial, Statistical & Business Intelligence Reporting: Crystal Reports, SAP, Business Objects, Excel, & SSRS (horizontal markets- finance, billing, resources, metrics, B2B, B2C, process improvement, operations) Collaborate on product launch plans and servicing requirements Developed a business solutions for SAP Customer Master Data configuration to support new SAP Hybris Cloud 4 Customer Project. Developed a business solutions by leveraging SAP SD HANA & Material Master Data configuration to support new e-commerce Hybris Project. Strong experience in the Analysis, design, development, testing and Implementation of Business Intelligence solutions using Data Warehouse/Data Mart Design, ETL, OLAP, Business Intelligence, Client/Server applications. Utilized SLT to integrate SAP ECC master data to Hybris using SLT private cloud. Created the VPN with RFC connection from SLT to ECC/CRM and Hana and replicated the master data and Target groups using control tables dd02L, dd025 and dd08. Initiated the Initial load and Delta for the update Familiar with new SAP CRM package tool to extract data into SAP Hybris Exposure to Client/Server, Web Application developmental tools and Software development and design. Demonstrated ability to identify root causes of problems, consider both the long and short-term impact of proposed solutions and develop workable solutions. Ability to manage (Multiple) project tasks with changing priorities and tight deadlines. Ability to work well in a team. Open to Team related tasks, team meetings, team interaction and conference calls. Research and analysis of data, market needs, and customer issues Experience with ATG / Oracle Commerce and/or Endeca. Training the clients on Oracle Web Commerce ATG modules including B2C/ Commerce/ CSC/ BCC/ Endeca/ Repository/ Content Management/ Personalization/ and other. Develop client software to consume already published web SOAP services to interface with Hybris and Endeca. TECHNICAL SKILLS Methodologies:  SDLC, QA Life Cycle, Waterfall Development, Agile Development, Data Extraction, Data Visualization, Complex Data Analysis, SQL/Macola ERP, Process Modeling, Gap Analysis, Change Management, Impact Analysis, Root Cause Analysis, SWOT Analysis, Project Planning, Budgeting and Scheduling, JAD Sessions. CCAR/DFAST/ICAAP/Risk Appetite Capital. Transportation Lifecycle Management (TLM), Warehouse Management Open Systems(WMOS) Databases:  Progress, MS Access, Oracle, SQL Server. Operating Systems:  Windows Server,RUP, Agile/ SCRUM framework, and Waterfall. SQL, HTML and XML. Database Oracle 10g/9i/8i, DB2, MS SQL Server Office Tools MS Office (Package), MS Visio, MS Project, MS FrontPage. Ecommerce Platforms SAP hybris, Oracle ATG, IBM WCS commerce, Magento, Fry's, Blue Martini. Oracle, Database,E-Business,Order Management, Oracle Forms, GS1 Model. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE ‎Confidential, San Francisco, CA Business Analyst Responsibilities: Developed a business solutions by leveraging SAP SD HANA & Material Master Data configuration to support new e-commerce Hybris Project. Experience in Designing and implementing data integration modules for extracting, transforming, and loading (ETL) functions.Worked on Gap Analysis. Gathered, analyzed, reviewed and documented design documents & business requirements, functional specifications/requirements and Use Case Document relating to business requirements to learn the scope and purpose of the application. Reviewed the developed product with Development before the release cycle and worked with development to fix issues. Strong experience in the Analysis, design, development, testing and Implementation of Business Intelligence solutions using Data Warehouse/Data Mart Design, ETL, OLAP, Business Intelligence, Client/Server applications. Actively participated in the weekly status report meetings between team lead, developers, SME and Project Manager. Extensive experience in developing Use Cases, creating Screen Mockups, conducting Gap Analysis and Impact, Analysis, SWOT analysis, Cost Benefit Analysis, Risk Analysis. Develop business solution for Customer Master Data configuration to support new e-commerce Hybris Project. Worked on a global team to support and implement SAP/SD and Master Data in other business units. Integrated Hybris with SAP ECC and CRM using Data Hub core extension, Used Hybris Data hub and processed the data using CRM customer, ECC product, order and utilized synchronous and asynchrous integration using IDOCS in the backend. Dataanalysis of existingdatabase to understand thedataflow and business rule applied to differentdatabases by SQL Conducted meetings with the business and technical team to gather necessary analytical datarequirements in JAD sessions. Used complex pre-defined and Ad-Hoc SQL queries for data validation, duplication, forward/reverse engineering for data mapping and ETL for data migration from the ERP/OLTP to the Data warehouse/OLAP system Responsible for data mapping and data mediation between the source data table and WMO data tables using MS Access and MS Excel. Experience in Conceptual, logical/physical database design & review sessions to determine and describe data flow. Excellence in delivering Quality Conceptual, Logical and Physical Data Models for Multiple projects involving various new and Existing Applications across Enterprise and Data Warehouse. Utilized Hybris configurable product (CPQ). This solution used existing configurable products setup for SAP Variant Configuration (VC), Integrates CPQ configuration user experience and process in Hybris to SAP backend. Utilized SLT to integrate SAP ECC master data to Hybris using SLT private cloud. Created the VPN with RFC connection from SLT to ECC/CRM and Hana and replicated the master data and Target groups using control tables dd02L, dd025 and dd08. Initiated the Initial load and Delta for the update Familiar with new SAP CRM package tool to extract data into SAP Hybris involved in design of a SAP based solution for the Energy Company. The harmonized solution envisages the usage of SAP Hybris. Utilized SAP Hybris for search and merchandising, content management, Order management, product information management and digital asset management Hybris marketing is utilized to created the target group using Customer data management of Hybris. Architected the commerce solutions such as B2B and B2C scenarios on the Hybris Platform and conducted the requirement and design sessions. Worked with Hybris Report Cockpit for the report dashboard Worked with Hybris Product cockpit for the product and catalog modeling Worked with Hybris CMS cockpit for the content management An in depth understanding of how to integrate Hybris with a corporate back office fulfillment product like SAP and CMS systems. Design the system architecture for the project, Design data models for Customer, Products etc. Design the approach for the data migration into the Hybris system from SAP systems. Provided the integration strategy documents, Designed the classification hierarchy Performed Business Process Modeling (BPM), Analysis & Re-engineering and providing solutions for issues relating to Risk management and Solution Management processes for better and efficient decision making in time. Capable of producing various documents like functional specifications requirements (FSR), business requirements documents (BRD), business process documents, user manuals, user interface specs and data mapping documents. Documented High Level Business needs, Requirement Report, Project Report, User Stories, bug reporting and other project deliverables in synch with SDLC mandates. Elicited requirements through brainstorming, Joint Application Development (JAD) and interview sessions. Created Business Requirement Document (BRD), System Requirement Specification (SRS) and Functional Requirement Document (FRD). Confidential, Dublin, OH Business Analyst Responsibilities: Worked on Hospital data processing for improving database for storing user files. Developed Tableau workbooks from multiple data sources using Data Blending. Experience in Conceptual, logical/physical database design & review sessions to determine and describe data flow. Excellence in delivering Quality Conceptual, Logical and Physical Data Models for Multiple projects involving various new and Existing Applications across Enterprise and Data Warehouse. Communicated data-related standards and conducted data modeling JAD sessions. Gained thorough knowledge in Oracle RDBMS concepts like Normalization, Data Modeling, Data Integration, Database Designing Worked with large data sets, automate data extraction, built monitoring/reporting dashboards and high-value, automated Business Intelligence solutions (data warehousing and visualization). Created the logical and physical Data model using MS Access. . Active involvement in ETL design for data integration and master data management. Worked with SQL queries for data manipulations. Prepared Test cases & Managed Requirement churn by incorporating changes to product backlog. Created Entity relationship diagrams for the proposed database. Participated in the development and creation of the data warehouse. Assisted in building a business analysis process model using Rational Rose, Requisite Pro and Visio. Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams. Very good understanding and experience in Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) like Oracle, SQL Server, Teradata, DB2, IMS, MySQL, including scripting, querying, updating, data extraction, analysis, modeling, testing. Well experienced with Informatica, in handling huge volumes of data in a Data warehouse for various ETL processes spanning over multiple systems with multiple source to target mappings and complex transformations. Gathered High-Level and Detailed-Level functional and non-functional requirements via daily JAD sessions to define the Business requirements and also created Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) Coordinated the upgrade of Transaction Sets 837 to HIPAA compliance. Did gap analysis for HIPAA 4010 EDI 837 and HIPAA 5010 EDI 837. Involved in impact analysis of HIPAA transaction sets on different systems in Assurant Health. Identifying the requirements for accommodating HIPAA 4010 and 5010 standards for EDI X12 transactions Performed data validation using SQL queries. Shared knowledge by performing Impact Analysis on transition from ICD 9 - ICD 10, made suggestions on UI and other changes required to be met during transition. Involved in requirements gathering and preparing the technical system design and System Design analysis of the flow of EDI transaction sets 834, 835, 997. Extensively used SQL and PL/SQL to retrieve the data from databases to perform data validations and comparisons for regression testing. Formulated procedures for data extraction, transformation and integration of healthcare data Experience on projects related to Health Information Exchange (HIE), Interoperability, Medicare, Medicaid, EDI transactions (inbound and outbound: 837, 820, 834 etc., ) HL7, Eligibility and Benefit systems, ICD 10, HCPCS, CPT, Claims Adjudication and expert in Affordable Care Act (ACA), aka Healthcare Reform (HCR) Confidential - Dallas, TX Business Analyst Responsibilities: Prepared Business Requirement Documents (BRDs) after the collection of Functional Requirements from System Users that provided appropriate scope of work for technical team to develop prototype, Use Cases, UML Diagrams for overall system. Established traceability matrix using Rational Requisite Pro to trace completeness of requirements in different SDLC stages. Designed and developed Project document templates based on SDLC methodology. Interacted with users for verifying User Requirements, managing Change Control Process, and updating existing Documentation. Created relationships in Requirement Traceability Matrix linking Business Requirements to Functional Requirements and Functional Requirements to Systems Requirements. Conducted Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions with IT groups. Identified the Key Changes and participated in Stakeholder Management to communicate effectively with them. Assisted to develop the Test Plan, Test Cases and Test Scenarios to be used in testing based on Business Requirements, Technical Specifications and/or Product Knowledge. Conducted User Acceptance Testing, gathered and documented User Manuals and Business Rules. Interviewed Business Users to gather Requirements and analyzed the feasibility of their needs by coordinating with the Project Manager and Technical Lead. Worked on broad range of technologies including business process tools such as MS Project, Primavera, MS Excel, MS Word, MS Access, MS Visio, technical assessment tools, Data Warehousing concepts and web design and development. Wrote Test Plans in MS Word for Manual Testing, System Testing, Integration Testing, Performance Testing, Regression Testing & reviewed their consistency with the Business Requirements. Extensive experience in Business Process Modeling using Visual modeling tools. Proven track record in maximizing resource utilization and successfully delivering projects in Banking, Retail Merchandising and Financial domains using waterfall and agile SDLC methodologies. Knowledge with AML, Base II, Dodd - Frank/ Volker Rules and CCAR, Dodd-Frank Regulatory Reporting FRY-14A/Q Monthly, Quarterly, Annual, FACTA, FRY9-C, FFIEC 041, FFIEC 031 reports, DFA 165, DFA 165E and others required for banks for compliance reporting to various regulatory agencies. Knowledge of Base II, CCAR, DFAST, PPNR, ALLL, Credit Risk, Market Risk, operational risk, ACH, Liquidity Risk Modeling and Management, PD/LGD/EAD modeling, Quantitative Approaches including General Linear Regression, Time Series Analysis, Decision Tress, Classification and Cluster Analysis, and Principal Component Analysis. Development, implementation and maintenance of documentation standards for capital management broadly CCAR/DFAST specifically. Compilation, quality assurance and delivery of CCAR submission documentation. Management of forecast documentation delivery for CCAR/DFAST. Development and/or enhancement of next generation capabilities including CCAR and DFAST to a leading practice standard. Documented Federal Reserve CCAR stress test qualitative assessment for regulatory requirements and internal audits. Played Market Risk, Finance and CCAR SME role between Business Heads and sponsors from Risk & Finance. Evaluated the current systems/processes in place with regard to the generation and reporting of 9Q forecast in its current shape as part of the CCAR, DFAST, ICAAP and Risk Appetite remits to perform Gap Analysis. Responsible for overall status reporting to Sr. Business, Risk, Finance and Technology Leadership on state of the underlying CCAR projects. Engage with Finance, Risk and Capital planning to deliver CCAR/DFAST capital adequacy regulatory reporting and stress testing requirements twice each year. Face off with Regional Presidents and other business managers of the branch retail network. Assist in any financial related matters as needed. Strong background in CCAR Regulatory Reporting especially in FRY 9C, FRY 14M/Q/A, FFIEC 041, FFIEC 031 reports and the related schedules. Maintained a working knowledge of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review "CCAR". Developed good practices for risk modeling procedures related to CCAR/DFAST. Developed and managed complex spreadsheets to aggregate firm-wide forecasts for the annual Dodd- Frank Act Stress Test (DFAST).