SUMMARY Senior Business Analyst and Certified Scrum Master with 9 years of experience in Banking and Financial Service domains. In depth noledge of Software Development Life Cycle which include Waterfall, Agile - Scrum, Kanban, Proof of concept and Rational Unified Process methodologies. Proficient in understanding teh Business Requirements and developing technology specifications accordingly. Expertise in Business Modeling and UML Diagrams (Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams). Active participation in discovery sessions, interviews, prototyping, document-reviews and plan configuration. Good noledge in SQL. Strong analytical, problem solving, decision-making and project management skills. Proven success in Business Requirement Gathering, GAP Analysis, Business Process Flows (As-Is and To-Be), JAD Sessions, UAT, Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) And RACI Matrix. Possess strong verbal and written communication skills with strong interpersonal skills and extremely reliable, quick learner and able to work independently as well as a team member. In depth noledge of Software Development Life Cycle process which includes Waterfall, Agile Scrum, Kanban, Proof of concept and Rational Unified Process methodologies. Experienced in gathering user requirements, analyzing and preparing Project Deliverables such as Business Requirement Document (BRD) and Functional Specification Document (FSD). Created Use Cases, Activity Diagrams and Unified Modeling Language (UML). Experience in conducting Feasibility study, CBA, GAP Analysis, SWOT and ROI Analysis. Highly proficient in working with Users and Stakeholders to elicit, analyze, communicate and validate requirements, identifying functional and non-functional requirements, document and verify Business Rules. Applied teh "As Is" and "To Be" process designs to identify any potential process gaps and improvements. Experience in conducting Joint Application Development (JAD) and Joint Application Requirements (JAR) sessions with end users, SMEs, and stakeholders. Experience in creating and using Requirements Traceability Matrix. Experienced with various asset types including in-depth noledge of Fixed Income, Securities and Derivatives. Experience in interacting with teh development team and teh higher management to meet teh deadlines. Experience in defects tracking, prioritized outstanding defects in reporting system. Co-ordinated between development team and teh management team to resolve any conflicts/defects in terms of requirements. Experienced in SOA Architecture, Internal and external Web Services (SOAP, WSDL and UDDI, API). Experience in creating Test Plan and Test Cases for Functional and Non-Functional testing. TECHNICAL SKILLS Methodologies:  Waterfall, Agile Scrum, Rational Unified Process and Extreme Programming, Hybrid. Business Modeling Tools:  Microsoft Visio, Blueprint, UML 2.0, Axure RP, Lucid Chart, Creately. Project Management:  Team Foundation Server, Microsoft SharePoint, JIRA, Confluence, Rally, MS Project, SQL, HTML, XML, MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel, MS Outlook, Prezi, Dreamweaver PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, DE Sr. Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Worked with teh business team to understand their business requirements. Served as a liaison between business and IT teams. Worked with architects and tech leads to craft a high-level design. Managed Requirements artifacts in JIRA, Confluence and Blueprint requirements management system. Worked with Scrum Teams to create solution stories to build execution team backlogs. Created, elicited, and documented functional requirements dat communicate teh design for each project. Identified teh work (LOE) dat each IT team must complete to fulfill teh business requirements. Worked with several projects and operated in teh Requirements and Analysis phases of teh SDLC. Worked closely with teh Executive Management, departmental directors and business users to gather, analyze and create teh Business Requirements documents. Completed teh IT impact assessment and turned teh project over to teh application scrum teams to execute. Lead system integration analysis, requirement analysis with key business and technical stakeholders including architects, developers and analysts. Reviewed and managed business process information and scenarios. Performed impact analysis, GAP analysis for new processes or changes to existing processes including process redesign to improve on teh current methods, apply analytical skills, and produce thoughtful and strategic recommendations for review with teh business. Actively involved in SCRUM meetings Sprint Planning with teh team. Experienced at leading meetings, such as JAD sessions and requirement reviews. Supported project teams to manage requirements, baseline, traceability and implement Change Requests Conducted one-to-one interviews with teh stakeholders for teh requirements elicitation. Helped teh developers in enhancing teh GUI and Architects by providing accurate business rules. Performed Analysis to progress from As-Is state to teh To-Be state and identified Gaps. Created teh Mock-up screens and Wireframes for an overview of GUI and UML diagrams such as sequence, activity and use case diagrams using MS Visio for proper visualization. Managed traceability of requirement artifacts. Developed, managed and tracked project plan to implement requested features. Performed risk analysis and mitigation plans, status reports, and client presentations, prepared business process models, defined milestone deliverables, and established critical success factors. Environment: Agile Scrum, JIRA, Confluence, Blueprint, HP ALM, MS Word, MS power point, MS Excel, MS Visio, SharePoint. Confidential, FL Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted JAD sessions and one-to-one interviews with teh stakeholders for teh requirements elicitation. Performed Gap Analysis to progress from As-Is state to teh To-Be state and identified Gaps. Created teh Mock-up screens and Wireframes for an overview of GUI and UML diagrams such as sequence, activity and use case diagrams using MS Visio for proper visualization. Gathered requirements and prepared teh Business Requirement Document (BRD). Developed, managed and tracked project plan to implement requested features. Performed risk analysis and mitigation plans, status reports, and client presentations, prepared business process models, defined milestone deliverables, and established critical success factors. Handled direct training of all team members and acted as liaison between teh team and LOB. Involved in preparing test data for test scenarios as per application specifications. Developed and implemented test plans, cases and scripts, both manually and through automated process. Maintained teh Requirement Traceability Matrix to make sure teh requirements are being met. Helped teh developers in enhancing teh GUI and Architects by providing accurate business rules. Worked with teh Development team in teh creation of user interface using HTML. Conducted User Acceptance Testing (UAT) to ensure all teh business requirements have been fulfilled. Environment: Agile, Rally, Axure RP, MS Word, MS power point, MS Excel, MS Visio, SharePoint. Confidential, PA Sr. Business Analyst/Scrum Master Responsibilities: Functioned as teh liaison between teh business and teh technical areas throughout teh project life cycle. Interfaced with teh client as part of requirements gathering and elicitation to finalize teh scope. Identified “As is” process and “To be” process as parts of Gap Analysis for new functionality requirements, as well as prioritizing them based on business to align them with teh project. Created business process workflow diagrams using Business Process Modeling Notation. Created Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams for Business Process Modeling. Conducted JRP sessions to understand business processes and functionality detail. Created Mock-up forms for better visualization and understanding of teh GUI. Preformed teh role as a Scrum Master and facilitated Scrum Ceremonies (Grooming, Sprint Planning, Daily Stand-Ups, Review and Retrospectives). Coached team members and Product Owner on Agile Principals and provided guidance. Handled Burn Down Chart to show remaining work in teh Sprint Backlog. Wrote user stories, acceptance criteria, cucumber test cases and used JIRA as ticket management tool and confluence for documentation. Regularly updated teh Test Plan and uploaded on Confluence for sharing with teh team and management. Created, assigned, and maintained tickets in JIRA for bugs and defects. Extensively performed Manual Testing process to ensure teh quality of teh software. Responsible for creating varied test data to extensively test functionality. Conducted Triage Calls to prioritize and track defects to be addressed. Carried out regression testing every time when changes were made to teh code to fix defects. Conducted walkthroughs of testing procedures. Reviewed test scripts as per teh business specifications and design documents. Worked with development and testing teams to accomplish timely release objectives. Developed teh High-Level Test plan and authored teh UAT test cases. Conducted User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Coordinated teh Site Champions Program for helping teh Users through teh transition. Prepared User Manuals and conducted training sessions. Environment: Agile- Scrum, Jira, Confluence, Balsamiq, Microsoft Office 365, Microsoft Visio, UML, SharePoint. Confidential, TX Business Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for creating and reviewing Business Requirements, Functional Specifications, Project Schedules, Documentation and Test Plans related to commercial lending. Associated in defined teh scope of teh project and identifying teh major actors, used various elicitation techniques to gather requirements. Developed business requirement documents, use cases, functional & non-functional documents, process diagrams including context, dataflow and decomposition diagrams. Responsible for decomposing High Level Business requirement into functional specifications. Used MS-Visio for model diagrams, MS-Word for documentation and used UML for visual modeling. Data Flow diagrams, Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Business Process models with special detail to Sub-Processes. Design message formats, queues, systems interfaces, and worked with teh Underwriters though interviews, Questionnaire and JAD sessions. Analyze, collected and prepared user requirements, definition, scope and expectations for deliverable plans. Delivered system documents, processes, diagrams, and test cases. Performed Risk Analysis of teh requirements to identify teh key business risk areas for teh project and prioritized teh application development and testing. Liaise with all teh stakeholders at all levels and worked closely with scrum teams of BAs, developers, testers and product control throughout teh development. Extensively done GAP analysis in teh project as there were numerous 'As-Is' and 'To-Be' conditions. Prepared master test plans with teh help HP Quality center of QA team. Responsible for conducting teh testing and defect analysis. Responsible for writing training manuals and training of teh end users. Environment: SQL Server, MS Visio, MS Project, Rational Requisite Pro, SharePoint, UML, XML, HPQC. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Reviewed and analyzed teh business requirements document to derive teh functional specifications document and assisted in teh preparation of System Requirement Specifications. Analyzed monthly/quarterly performance against plans and forecast and recommended actions. Formed a bridge between teh Manager and teams with effective presentations and meetings. RAD methodologies were used to understand iterative and incremental project functionality prototypes. Object-Oriented Programming was used to implement Rational Unified Process methodology. Involved in maintaining and developing various risk analysis and feasibility analysis documents. Developed Use Cases based on teh needs of Business Users. Created test plans, test case scenarios and test scripts for System Integration Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Unit Integration Testing. Created a SWOT analysis, mapped functional specifications to business requirements to access gaps. Wrote test plans, test cases, run books and performed unit and user testing for new system. Used MS Office suite (Word, Excel, Access, Visio, Power Point, Outlook, and Project) for project tracking, documentation, and presentation. Attend weekly change request meetings to document changes and implement procedures to test changes upon completion. Wrote various SQL queries for data manipulations. Served as teh primary interface for teh assigned projects and maintained good client relationships. Facilitate weekly client and team meetings to discuss project status and resolve issues. Environment: RAD, MS Office Suite (Word, PowerPoint, Access, Excel, Outlook), MS Project, MS SharePoint, MS Visio, Rational Rose, MS SQL, Business Objects, Quality Centre. Confidential Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Worked with teh business users to define requirements and develop user specification documents. Conducted user interviews, gathered and analyzed teh requirements using Requisite Pro. Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using UML tools. Met with business stakeholders to gain consensus on new product functionality. Identified, investigated, analyzed, defined and documented business processes. Responsible for creating and maintaining documentation related to teh project including scope document, vision document, functional specification document, defect status report, risk analysis document, mitigation plans, supplementary requirements specification document and impact analysis document. Conducted workflow, process flow and GAP Analysis to derive requirements for system enhancements. Authored Detailed Design Specification and Software Requirements Specification. Collaborated with teh QA team to ensure adequate testing of software both before and after completion, maintained quality procedures, and ensured dat appropriate documentation is in place. Prioritized new features and functionality based on business needs. Identified and documented best practices for teh product offering. Designed teh Test Plan and Test Cases for all processes and Web Services. Went through SLA (Service Level Agreement) and created Stub Data. Environment: MS Visio, MS Office Tools, Quality Center, SQL, TOAD, Oracle, Java, AGILE Scrum. Confidential  Business Analyst Responsibilities: Performed business analysis including process re-engineering and requirements elicitation for integrating all teh disparate systems into one synchronized system. Conducted walkthroughs with department heads to have a deeper understanding of teh requirement. Created project plans taking into consideration projects’ mission, process flows, timelines, and requirements to document them. Involved in full Software Development Life Cycle. Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using UML. Experience in teh planning, UAT, and implementation of system enhancements and conversions. Facilitated Joint Application Development sessions to identify business rules and requirements and then documented them in a format for inter and intra departmental review. Documented teh User Manual and trained teh end users for teh application. Environment: Waterfall, Clear Quest, Microsoft Project, Oracle, UNIX, MS Excel and MS Access. 