SUMMARY Highly motivated and detail - oriented Scrum Master with 8+ years of experience working with diverse Scrum teams in BF’s (Banking, Finance), Insurance and E-Commerce domain. Worked with many cross functional teams gained experience, hardworking and an optimistic Business Analyst with proven leadership skills and proficiency in gathering user requirements and converting them into system specifications, throughout teh software development life cycle projects and possess a strong analytical mind and excellent communication skills along with teh desire to continuously improve, learn and excel. Structured, goal-oriented and worked on multiple projects from initiation to teh completion. Experienced with various SDLC methodologies like Waterfall, Agile, Hybrid where me Worked closely with teh SME’s, and staff to understand teh requirements and specifications for new applications as well as enhancements. Acted as an intermediary between teh business and teh technical team in teh areas of Software Design and Development Life Cycle to understand teh structure, policies, and operations of an organization. Experienced in analyzing and preparing artifacts like Business Requirement Document (BRD), Functional Requirement Document (FRD), Software Requirement Specification (SRS), Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM). Gained profound noledge in Financial Markets, Money Markets, Capital Markets and Derivatives. Being a process-oriented Business Analyst me facilitated JAD sessions and also gatheird requirements using various elicitation techniques like brainstorming, document analysis, interview session with key stakeholders. Expertise in performing GAP Analysis (AS-IS scenario & forecasting TO-BE process), performed Cost Benefit Analysis (compared teh results of teh aggregated costs and quantitatively to determine if teh benefits outweigh teh costs). SWOT Analysis (To identify teh Strengths, Weakness, Opportunities and Threats). Developed both Static and Dynamic Prototypes and participated in writing Test plans and reviewed and helped testing team in developing test cases. Extensive experience on teh Microsoft Suite: MS Power point, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Access and Share point. Proficient in SOA implementation, with a good noledge of webservices (SOAP & REST), web methods (GET PUT POST DELETE ), XML, WSDL, WADL, UDDI. Extensive implementation noledge of Data warehousing, Data Structures, Schemas, Data Marts and OLAP Operations such as Roll-Up, Drill-Down, Slice, Dice and Pivot. Involved in creating data flow diagrams, Data Mapping from Source-> stage and Stage-> Target mapping documents indicating teh entities, attributes, fields, transformations required and business rules to be applied. Handled multiple change requests by performing Impact analysis during teh implementation phase; submitted business case documents to Change Control Board (CCB). Proficient in handling multiple teams and facilitated scrum ceremonies- Daily Scrum, Sprint Planning, Review and Retrospective meetings. Successfully facilitated Retrospective meeting and used various interactive techniques like Silent Writing, Sailboat, Sad-Mad-Glad, Lego Retrospective and prepared action items to eliminate impediments. Used Burn up/Burn down charts to track teh team’s progress and developed strong noledge ofScrumtheory, teh rules and practices. Assisted Product Owner in Grooming Product Backlog using prioritization techniques such as KANO and MOSCOW and ensured dat teh user stories follow INVEST criteria Facilitated teh development of Acceptance Criteria for user stories and ensured dat teh user stories adhere to Gherkins format. Well versed with various estimation techniques like Planning Poker, T-Shirt Sizing in picking Product Backlog Items, to commit to in teh sprint. Conducted Release Planning meetings and facilitate business analysis activities alongside teh Architect Designer. Understanding of Test-Driven Development (TDD), Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and Acceptance Test Driven Development (ATDD). Closely worked with teh compliance team and involved with various compliances such as Dodd Frank, SOX, BSA, SAR, CTR, U.S Patriot Act, FINRA. Proficient in various Retirement accounts like IRA, 401(k), Roth IRA, Roth 401(K). me am a team player, will always rate my team’s success over my personal achievements and will meet teh project deadlines and targets. Adaptive to working in different environments and Flexible in dealing with offshore teams. . Creative and Innovative thinker, with excellent communication skills and developed conflict resolution skills.Experienced in leading Scrum technical teams and facilitating discussion, decision making as well as conflict resolution. TECHNICAL SKILLS Methodologies: Agile, Hybrid and Waterfall (Traditional) Frameworks: SAFE, Scrum, Kanban, ATDD, TDD, FDD Diagramming Tools: MS Visio, Balsamiq Prototyping Tools: Balsamiq, Adobe XD, Macaw, Axure, iRise, Blueprint Modelling tools: UML Designer - Enterprise Architect, MS Visio, Plant UML BI Tools: Tableau, Power BI, Cognos Agile Tools: Atlassian JIRA, Rally, VersionOne, Confluence PM Software: MS Project, Primavera, Concept Draw Languages: VB, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, TSQL. .Net Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, Web Services,, SOAP, RESTfull, AJAX, JSON, Java, asp.net Testing Tools: HP QC, Postman, Selenium, SOAP UI, TFS, Cucumber Protocols: HTTP, FTP, SMTP, SOAP Databases: SQL Server 2008 & 2012, Oracle, MySQL, MS Access, DB 2 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential | New York Scrum Master/Business System Analyst (SAFe) Responsibilities: Ensured dat teh application is compatible with compliant with regulations involved with various accounts such as IRA, 401(K), Roth IRA, Roth 401(K) and Life Insurance. Designing Proof of Concept (POC) to identify baseline, adverse, and serve scenarios. Involved in PI Planning, facilitated Break-out Sessions and participated in Scrum of Scrum meetings to ensure dat teh mapped dependencies are sorted. Created product development process using Scrumban (Scrum+Kanban) and developed user stories based on teh requirements for teh workflow of teh system to enable continuous delivery model. Facilitated, Coached and trained all teh SAFE ceremonies like Daily stand-up, Iteration planning, Program Backlog Grooming, Iteration review and Iteration retrospective. Assisted teh business in redesigning teh process and created a Business Process Modelling Notation (BPMN), documented teh business process flows through solving teh complex business problems teh organization and teams on values and principles of Agile and Scrum. Played a pivotal role in setting up Acceptance Criteria, creating test plans, recording test result for all user stories. Helped in improving process efficiency and process enhancements through retrospective meetings. Made sure user stories adhere teh INVEST criteria. Assisted teh product owner in prioritizing teh backlog item using WSJF technique. Collaborated with teh Product Owner to write teh User Stories and teh Acceptance Criteria and worked closely with teh Scrum Team to maintain teh Team Backlog. Managed teh lifecycle of code development, from planning of iterations to deployment. Helped team to work through quality and technical debt by bringing in practices like Acceptance Test Driven Development (ATDD). Used Java Script, HTML, and CSS for developing Web Pages and in creating web methods for web service. me was mostly involved in Web Application Development part. Communicated with other management, engineers, product managers and support specialists on various issues. Track and communicate team velocity and sprint/release progress. Created Release Planning for iterations by calculating teh Estimated Velocity continuously. Identified internal and external Web Services and performed Webservice Testing using SOAP UI. Conducted Synchronous Orchestration to ensure dat teh proposal is generated. Assisted in identification of API’s and tested teh API’s by creating test suites with stub requests and responses in SOAP UI and validated on various assertions. Collaborated with teh product owner in converting Epics into User Stories as well as tasks and worked closely with Product Owner for maintaining Artifacts Such as Product Backlog, Spring Backlog, Sprint and Release Burnup/Burndown charts. Conducted Planning Poker to help team estimate story points for teh user stories during teh Sprint Planning. Lead and provide technical assistance and training in using JIRA, Confluence and other tools as and when required. Created product development process using Scrum, defined Definition of Done(DOD) criteria for teh workflow of teh system to enable Continuous Delivery model. Extensively implemented teh best use of Jira tool’s features in keeping teh track of User Stories, Tasks and progress of teh work through tracking teh Velocity and Capacity of teh team also. Constantly monitored Burn Down and Burn up Charts for evaluation. Collaborated with teh testers while performing Functional, Regression, Load testing to check teh functionality of teh application. Environment: SAFE, Office 365, Microsoft Suite, AJAX, Soap UI, JAVA, Oracle 11g, SQL, Micro strategy, JIRA,, GitHub, Jenkins, Confluence. Confidential | Boston, Massachusetts Scrum Master/Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Facilitatingdaily scrum meetings, enforcing timeboxesand responding to teh requirements, tracking baseline, sprint planning and sprint retrospective. Played a crucial role in maintain a healthy work relationship with teh stakeholders, project sponsors, development team, product owner and vendors. Provide visibility to teamimpediments/risksand help eliminate them. Ensured dat teh milestones are achieved and teh deadlines are met. Followed various innovative approaches like Pair Programing, Swarming, Refactoring. Generated reports for teh analysis and forecast with teh help of XSL-FO Reports. Drafted teh Definition of Done(DOD) and teh Acceptance Criteria for teh well-defined low-level functional and non-functional requirement specifications. Managed both onshore and offshore teams working on different time zones. Coordinated with teh project management tool - JIRA, Confluence. Performed Data Mapping using EXCEL, to identify and standardize teh data from various distributed systems. Performed Extract, Transform and Load(ETL) operations to perform data cleansing and standardization for reporting. Performed various OLAP operations such as Slicing Dicing, Roll-up, Drilldown and defined teh relation between Fact tables and teh Dimension Tables. Tracking team’s progress and milestones to make sure they are highly visible to teh product owner/stakeholders. Resolved conflicts within teh teams and kept teh team motivated towards teh end goal. Training new team members in Agile Principles, Scrum process and helping them transition from waterfall to agile methodology and ffacilitated teh ceremonies and implement time boxes during sprint execution Used JIRA to document and visualize stories, tasks and measure performance through burn down charts/velocity charts. Worked with teh Development team to integrate teh SOA architecture to support teh RESTful Web Services and proficient in XML, XSD, JSON. Identified API’s and performed API testing using POSTMAN. Facilitated all Scrum ceremonies and involved in Product Backlog Grooming. Conducted White Board Sessions to train Scrum Development Team about Scrum Ceremonies. Acted as an Agile Coach and facilitated Agile Games to help team build a better collaborative environment. Made sure user stories are according to SMART criteria. Played a pivotal role in setting up User Acceptance Criteria for user stories to be accepted by teh business. Assisted in prioritizing teh backlog item using MOSCOW technique. Worked with Product Owner on Artifacts Such as Product Backlog, Spring Backlog, Sprint and Release Burn down. Built a trustworthy and safe environment where problems can be raised without fear of blame, retribution, or being judged, with an emphasis of healing and problem solving. Environment: Hybrid, MS suite, IBM rational doors, MS Visio, MS Project, Oracle 11g UML, SQL Server, AJAX, .Net, HTML, Java script, CSS, Restful, Balsamic, GitHub. Confidential | Troy, Michigan Scrum Master/Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Coordinated with teh Product owner in prioritizing teh user stories in teh product backlog, facilitated teh daily scrum meeting, sprint plan & review meetings at teh beginning and end of each sprint. Generated Sprint Burn down chart and Burn Up Charts to track teh status of each sprint cycle for dat release using RALLY. Facilitated training sessions for teh scrum team to better estimate teh efforts and time required to complete a user story. Assisted teh product owner in breaking down Features into User Stories using RALLY. Reported Defects in teh SharePoint Defect Log, assisted in implementing Web Orchestration and applied As-Is To-Be process models. XML Loan Data Capture, Comparison and Analysis using Beyond Compare software. Coordinated with Product owner to create WBS, manage schedules, deadlines, resources and teh project tasks using RALLY. Calculated teh Velocity, Capacity, obtained teh Focus factor and predicted teh Forecast for teh next sprints. Facilitated, coached and guided teh teams on values and principles of agile and scrum. Conducted scrum games to help build a better collaborative environment within teh scrum team. Played a crucial role in setting up User Acceptance Criteria for both functional as well as technical user stories Resolved various impediments hindering teh flow of teh project with teh help of teh Product Owner for improving teh velocity of teh project. Environment: Agile Scrum, MS Suite,RALLY, Soap UI, SOA, SharePoint, SQL, HTML, CSS, Selenium. Confidential Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for creating and reviewing business requirements, functional specifications, project schedules, documentation and test plans related to commercial lending Assisted with product evaluation, product customization, and system integration. Conducted GAP analysis around teh identification of business rules, business and system process flows, user administration, requirements, and assumptions Designed and developed Use Cases, Use Case Diagrams and Activity Diagrams using UML Supported testing, Test Cases in HP Quality Center dat would test various Test scenarios Authored business requirements document with teh business users. Extracted, discussed, and refined business requirements from business users and team members. Coordinated project and ensured compliance with estimated costs and timelines. Designed Engineering database to in corporate into teh Liberty Database for tracking and reporting purposes from an Engineering effort. Involved in documentation during various phases of development life cycle. Managed Low Level Design meetings with Engineering, Architect, and all stakeholders to ensure QoS as well as teh architectural network variables were implemented ensuring clean transitions. Coordinated activities between business unit and technical staff, developed new methods, policies, and procedures to meet teh business needs, as well as acted as a primary trainer in educating teh business units, related to business applications. Performed UAT on business requirements, technical specifications, and product noledge. Environment: Oracle, JAVA, MS Excel, MS Access, HP Quality Center, MS Visio, MS Project. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Gatheird and analyzed teh requirements and provided high level estimates during analysis phase for teh enhancement of teh Fraud detection application. Conducted Gap Analysis to access teh strengths and weakness for teh proposed project and documented teh various components. Was also involved in SWOT analysis, IMPACT analysis, Cost benefit analysis. Worked on many Change requests from stakeholders and accommodated them successfully. Conducted various requirement gathering sessions by using various Elicitation Techniques such as Brain Storming, Interviews, Focus Group. Designed and developed UML Diagrams including use cases, activity and sequence diagrams using Visio Acted as a point of contact for clarifying business and functional requirements to teh development team. Worked on teh Orchestration process to integrate it in all teh phases of Customer Report Generation. Involved in identifying and implementation of Soap, Xml based webservices and web methods. Involved in webservice testing of numerous webservices and API’s using Soap UI and swagger. Created and maintained teh RTM (Requirements Traceability Matrix) Facilitated user acceptance testing with business users and conducted signoff meetings. Environment: Oracle, JAVA, MS Excel, MS Access, HP Quality Center, MS Visio, MS Project. 