SUMMARY Experienced Business Analyst and has a PMI Certification as Professional in Business Analysis. Over ten years experience as a Business Analyst and has been working in Agile/Scrum environments for the past 6 years. Collaborated and managed different I.T. teams including off - shore teams on projects which has implemented Agile/Scrum practices and processes. Very knowledgeable of capturing functional requirements through a blended approach of both use cases (scenarios) and user stories (features) while collaborating with the business community to capture the user story acceptance criteria (vision). Lastly, documentation of the systems requirements to ensure that the general system requirements, training, security, capacity, policy/regulation, systems architecture, and systems acceptance criteria to ensure that deployment and implementation is governed properly for the system. Requirement elicitation including SMEs, Swagger/Yaml documentation, sequence diagrams, interviews, workshops, and workflow diagrams. User Story Creation & Management (including defining user acceptance criteria) in collaboration with the business. Capturing Business, Functional Requirements, Non-functional Requirements, derived from user cases (User Story) Gathering. Process Improvement through a complete underatnding of the problem domain . Use of Models to compliment requirements (Scope, Data, Process, Interface, and Business rule model). Assisted in creating a bank of test cases to ensure that we delivered what was expected and the business need was satisfied. Facilitated Prototype and storyboard creation based on the vision of the business community to gain early feedback from the business community during requirement elicitation. Documented Logical diagram, process diagram, DFD, DD, and functional, non-functional requirements, and modularization as input to system design. Trace systems requirements(minimum or recommended) back to at least one business requirement or user requirement in requirement documentation. Java Framework (Spring Boot MVC) PCF (Pivotol Cloud Foundery/platform for deployment). ALM/Rally to manage application lifecycle and Confluence (Wiki). Sequence diagram (API calls, http verbage, sequence of events) Swagger/Yaml to read Apis pathway endpoints in order to document technical details in ALM/Rally(user story elaboration). Logical diagram used to understand relationship existing functionality and new functionality (entities, attributes, and relationships). Assisting UX in defining Prototypes for the Cardless ATM Engine On-boarding interfaces: Wireframes to drive communication and help support evolutionary discovery of requirements. Web services (web based applications). Data analysis (Big Data Pipeline), business analysis, and systems analysis. Giffy Diagram. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, St. Louis, MO Technical Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Gathered, analyzed, validated, defined, diagrammed, and got in the middle of the opportunity or problem domain to fully understand the domain knowing that this becomes the basis for the Solution Domain and Process Improvement. Traced the systems requirements back to at least one business or user requirement. Ustilzed the Scope, data, business rule, interface (wireframes, storyboard), and process models (blended approach use case scenarios and user story) as a compliment to capturing requirements. Facilitated the daily stand-up as a replacement/stand-in for the Scrum-master. Led collaboration in elaboration work sessions from features to user stories while satisfying the INVEST acronym in user story development of new functionality, repairs, and defects. Defined and documented the System Requirements for the Cardless Engine including system capabilities, general system conditions, systems interfaces, system user characteristics, security requirements, training requirements (onboarding), system archictecture, initial capacity requirements, system analysis, and systems acceptance criteria. Facilitated user story elaboration session collaborating with dev lead, dev team, QA, PM, and Scrum-Master ensuring that we captured the functionality of the user-story by documenting with the user story template, and capturing the technicals details(web services: request object, response object, request endpoint, JSON Format Response), Input/Output, User Acceptance Criteria, Systems Requirements, and Non-Functional Requirements. Web Services (web applications) Utilized the Sequence diagram, swagger document, and the logical diagram to document the technical aspect of the user story. Confidential  Business Analyst  Responsibilities: Facilitated the Sprint Planning with the off-shore team which consisted of User Stories, story points, duration, estimated hours, resources, and estimated start and completion date. Managed projects in an AGILE environment utilizing Conduit V1 migration to Conduit V2. Reviewed project documentation with the team weekly in terms of current project development phase, schedule, blockers, Sprint process, solution design, outstanding project issues, and the traceability matrix. Managed and created the backlog, created the roadmap (release planning schedule), and managed the traceability matrix. Communicated project and task status in Scrum daily stand-ups. Elicited business requirements and functional requirements from interviews, observations, business process diagrams, swim lane diagrams and discussions with the CEO, and QA Manager. Built User Stories to reflect communicated business requirements from the business community perspective. Facilitated prototype and story-board creation to gain early feedback from the business community. Confidential  Business Analyst/Scrum Master Responsibilities: Utilized the Requirement Traceability Matrix in documenting and tracking requirements to support Impact Analysis, Dependency Analysis, and work products for all approved requirements. Interfaced with the Scrum team to ensure functionality of User Stories/Use Cases in Sprint Planning. Facilitated daily Scrum-Meetings, Sprint Retrospective (lessons learned, best practices, process improvements, and removed process problems. Performed Functional Testing to ensure applications were functioning properly after release to fully illustrate the ease of use, and satisfaction of stakeholder intent. Scrum Master of Reporting Suite facilitating Sprint Planning, Release Planning schedule which evolved from User Stories. Elicited business and functional requirements using document analysis, business process descriptions/workflow analysis and partnered with stakeholders. Managed User Story creation and defects using Jira and Confluence. Groomed and refined User Stories including story breakdown and consolidation utilizing Kanban. Reviewed and approved QA test cases and test results, created test cases, performed testing and completed requirement definition. Identified areas for process efficiency and user experience improvement and created requirements to establish project documents for development and implementation. Utilized SQL (DML) to manipulate the database records in the database table to determine what updates can be made to the data, where the data is recorded at in the database, and how the data is represented in supporting the process models (use case/user story). Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Assisted in implementation of Scrum processes and enforced AGILE practices to ensure a smooth transition from traditional to Agile for the Pilot Program. Performed quality assurance activities (Peer Review, Inspection with engineers, senior management, and QA personnel). Captured business requirements utilizing interviews, observation, and User Story/Use Case scenarios. Followed the PMO model for managing projects (initiation, planning, estimation, implementation, review and release). Illustrated flowcharts to capture the timing and ordering of events according to the footprint for the production line. Ensured product satisfied requirements (business, user, and software). Confidential  Business Analyst Responsibilities: Assisted various clients during consulting engagements to derive business and functional requirements using interviews, business process descriptions, design sessions, and workflow analysis with stakeholders. Performed QA activities such as process analysis, and quality audits. Assisted in scope development by understanding full product and project descriptions which were front-end, back-end, database, and UI. Served as Product Owner for existing portfolio (Citibank, Barclays). Captured requirements/specifications through Use cases/User Story development. Managed Traceability Matrix to assist in QA, QC, and to support Impact and Dependency Analysis. Confidential  Business Analyst Responsibilities: Assisted SDLC team in gathering requirements, and defined preliminary scope statement. Created functional flowcharts using Microsoft Visio. Utilized blended Waterfall and Agile lifecycle and Agile strategies in software development. Serves as an analyst on system design (system design and systems requirement specifications). Assisted in overall software testing emphasis on User Acceptance after requirements were finalized.