SUMMARY Over 7 years of experience in Information Technology with specialization in Business Analysis, Software Quality Assurance Excellent business writing skills required for documenting Business Requirements Document (BRD), Functional Requirements Document (FRD), and Non - Functional Requirements Document (NFRD). In-Depth knowledge of SDLC, have scrupulous understanding of various phases like Requirements elicitation, Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing Experience in conducting JAD Sessions with stakeholders, department heads, and end users. Ability to collaborate with peers in both, business, and technical areas, to deliver optimal business process solutions, in line with corporate priorities. Experience in conducting GAP analysis, User Acceptance Testing, SWOT analysis, Cost Benefit analysis, and ROI analysis. Used Traceability Matrix extensively to track functionality coverage. Sound proficiency in UML for creating Use Cases, Use Case Diagrams, Activity diagrams. Experience in Testing, Manual and Automated using tools Win Runner, Load Runner, Quick Test Professional and Test Director. Extensive experience in Analyzing Software Requirement Specifications and involved in development of Test Plans, Test Cases and executing them. Excellent logic skills for understanding and developing system workflows and well suited for communicating with both technical and non-technical professionals. Proficient in Testing, System Testing, GUI Testing, Stress Testing, Auto Regression Testing, Black box Testing, UAT, Performance Testing and Functionality Testing. Excellent understanding of Financial Instruments (Stocks, Corporate and Government Bonds, CDs, MBS, Derivatives) and regulatory and compliance reporting. Good exposure and understanding of various domains especially in credit products like Wealth Management, Loans and Mortgages and Capital Markets. Have experience working with mobile-based applications (Android). Ability to organize, prioritizes, and assign effectively. Excellent people management skills and interpersonal skills. Good analytical and communication skills and ability to work independently and also perform as part of a team. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing tools: Win Runner 7.5/7.2/7.0,LoadRunner 7.8/7.6/7.5 Quick Test Pro 8.0, Rational Suite, HP ALM. Bug Reporting Tools: Test Director 7.6/8/0, Quality Center, Rational Clear Quest, PVCS and PCRTS. Operating system: Windows NT/2000/XP, Red Hat Linux 7, Solaris 8, Mac OS X, HP-UX. Database: MS SQL Server, Oracle, Oracle 8i, DB2, Sybase, MS Access2000. SQL Utilities: SQL* LOADER, SQLQUERY, TOAD. Platforms: J2EE BEA WEBLOGIC. Formatting: XML, HTML, DHTML, VISIO, WORD, EXCEL, and POWERPOINT Network Protocols: HTTP, TCP/IP, and Telnet. Business: Project Management, SDLC, MS Office, and Lotus Notes. Other Tools: MS Project, Project Web Access. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Senior Business Analyst Responsibilities: Managed 2 business analysts under me providing them with the guidance in the webinar sessions, conducting the JAD sessions with the user, interviewing the user on business needs, facilitating the discussions and other day-to-day business activities. Worked on the current AS-IS and future TO-BE functionality of the system Used reverse engineering, elicit and gathered the requirements based on the clients comments. Presented the client’s use cases to the technical and IT team and present the documentation for approval Clarified doubts and ambiguities about requirements to the technical team. Developed process for defect recording, tracking, and monitor process compliance. Extensively used Jira and Confluence to organize teams around tasks, projects and initiatives. Coordinated and prioritized testing of applications involved in creating the test plan, test data, and test cases documents. Managed and facilitated multiple workgroups in requirements gathering activities, plan, elicit, track, analyze and communicate project progress, managed client expectations, and coordinated with numerous other development activities contributing to a highly visible data warehouse Authored business requirements documents with the business users. Handled difficult Stakeholders and established smooth relationship. Extracted, discussed, and refined business requirements from business users and team members. Environment: DOORS, HPQC, MS Office, SalesForce, SQL Developer, and Oracle. Confidential Business Analyst / QA Analyst Responsibilities: Gathered requirements using interviews, document analysis, requirements workshops, business process descriptions, business analysis, and workflow analysis for the system. Documented System Requirements and supplementary requirements like complying with 401 RPS system industry regulations. Interviewed SMEs, stakeholders and asked detailed questions and carefully recorded the requirements in a format that can be reviewed and understood by both business people and technical people. Demonstrated strong analytical and project management skills, including a thorough understanding of how to interpret customer business needs and translate them into application and operational requirements. Produced Master, System and UAT Test Plan for Releases and Defects fixes. Worked with Quality Center for requirements management, test management and defect management. Produced Test Scenarios and Test Cases for Releases and different critical business processes. Produced Test Data plan and requirements for manual and automated testing. Performed Manual testing for System and User Acceptance Testing for Application Under Testing. Performed System testing for components with in application and integration with all modules in the system. Performed UAT testing for all critical business processes partner with Business Users. Identified and investigated defects in the application under test. Reviewed identified defects in the Change Control Board and decided its resolution process. Partnered with Development and Release management teams to coordinate all the releases. Created Test Execution Matrix for System and User Acceptance Testing communicated to required all parties. Confidential QA Analyst Responsibilities: Analyzed business requirements, system requirement specifications and responsible for documenting functional requirements and supplementary requirements in Quality Center Involved in developing and executing detailed test strategy, test plan, test scenarios, test cases and test scripts using Quality Center for defect management Used MS Share Point as a configuration management tool is storing various QA artifacts of the project. Strong experience in conducting User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and documentation of Test Cases. Performed various kinds of black box testing including functional, non functional, performance, integration, auto regression testing, system, usability, scalability, load and batch testing. Used Quality Center to track and report system defects and bug fixes. Written modification requests for the bugs in the application and helped developed developers to track and resolve the problems. Extensively involved in Preparing Test Plan and Writing Test Cases. Developed automation test scripts with QTP Performed Regression testing by executing the scripts developed with QTP Developed the SQL queries to verify the data populated in Oracle Database. Performed User acceptance testing (UAT). Test plans and test cases developed in Test Director Executed automation test scripts and bugs reported to developers Bugs reporting and tracking done using Test Director