SUMMARY Result - driven IT Professional with 9+ years of experience in Designing, Developing and Implementing Intranet, Internet applications, web development, Object Oriented Programming using Microsoft .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/2.0 , ASP.NET, C# and VB.NET. Proficient in SDLC methodologies and development processes such as requirement gathering, analysis, prototyping, design, development and implementation of enterprise software solutions. Solid understanding of Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOD) and RDBMS concepts. Hands-on experience in implementing various software development methodologies like Agile Development Process using Scrum, Waterfall Model. Strong designing experience using Object Oriented Programming (OOPs) Principles like Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism, reusability and Design patterns like Abstract factory, Singleton, Object pool a standard solution to common problems in software design. Hands-on experience in creating rich user interface for the web using HTML5, jQuery, XML, CSS3, Ajax Control Tool kit, Java Script, Angular JS, Bootstrap etc. Expertise in developing various applications using .NET technologies like C#, MVC, XML, ASP.NET, WCF, WPF, ADO.NET, Windows Forms and Rest API. Extensive experience in using features of .NET Framework Generics Collection, Extension Methods, Lambda Expression, Events, Delegates, Process, LINQ and Multithreading. Good experience in developing applications using MVVM, MVP, MVC 5/4/3, Entity Framework. Strong development experience in Visual Studio .NET 2015/2012/2010/2008. Experience in Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), LINQ, jQuery, JSON objects, and MVP/MVC Design Patterns. Familiar with JavaScript libraries like Knockout JS, Aurelia and Bootstrap templates and Angular JS framework. Experience with XML, SOAP, WSDL, Web Services, Validation Controls, Authentications like windows authentication, forms authentication. Experience on ADO.NETcomponents such as Datasets, Data Adapter, Data Reader, Data View, Data Table and Command object to access and update database. Expert in Database development and proficient in writing database Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, cursors and Complex queries in MS SQL Server, MS Access, and Oracle. Extensive experience in SQL Server Database design. Development experience in SQL Server 2005, 2008 SQL Programming, T-SQL, stored procedures, ADO.NET, Oracle, PL/SQL and Test Driven Development. Good experience in developing the Data Access Layer for CRUD operations and to interact with Databases using ADO.NETand ADO.NETEntity Framework Database First/Code First Approaches, LINQ to Entities. Specialized in designing/architect, developing and maintaining Restful and SOAP web services using WCF. Experience in design and development of applications using .NETand Client-side operation like jQuery, Telerik User Interface (Kendo UI), Bootstrap with Responsive design adopted to mobile view. Experience in Cloud computing platform like Microsoft Azure and also Amazon Web Services (AWS) for building, deploying and managing applications and services. Experience in DTS, ETL, Creating Packages, and Reporting Services (SSRS), Integration Services (SSIS), Analysis Services (SSAS) on SQL Server Database. Versatile team player with excellent analytical, interpersonal and effective organizational skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages:  C# .NET, VB.NET, VB, C, C++, T-SQL, PL-SQL Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, XSD, WSDL, XAML, SOAP, CSS, WebForms Microsoft Technologies:  MVC .NET, ADO.NET, AJAX, Classic ASP, WPF, SilverLight Scripting Languages:  JavaScript, jQuery, Knockout JS, Angular JS, Node JS, React JS, VB Script Databases:  SQL SERVER 2014/2012/2008/2005/2000 , Oracle11g/10g/9i/8i, MongoDB, GreenPlum Frameworks:  Microsoft.NET 1.X/ 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5 Operating Systems:  Win NT, Win 95/98, Win- 2000/2003/2008/2010 , Windows Vista, OSX, UNIX IDE Tools:  Visual Studio 2015/13/12/10/08/05/03 Enterprise Servers:  IIS 8.0/7.0/6.5/6.0/5.0 Cloud Platforms:  Microsoft Azure, Office 365, Amazon Web Services (AWS) Reporting Tools:  SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Reports 9.0 Methodologies:  Agile SCRUM, Agile RUP, Waterfall Version Control:  GIT, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Subversion (SVN), Visual Source Safe PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Cincinnati, OH Sr. Full Stack .NET Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Scrummethodology like participating in daily standup meetings, Sprint Planning and Retrospective meetings Developed new User Interfaces and templates for social networking site and UI for the direct messaging application. Development of web application using ASP.NET MVC in Microsoft Visual Studio IDE. Developed web application using ASP.NET MVC 5, C#, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Entity Framework, Angular and AJAX. Built impressive user-friendly UI/UX designs for application using Angular 2, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap. Designed and developed dynamic ASPX web pages using C#, ASP.NET, HTML5, Java Script. Worked on Kendo UI controls like grid, list view and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers. Used various Server Controls like Multi View and Grid View with extensive Data Binding to Display, Page and Sort Multiple Records. Used Microsoft Entity Framework Code First approach for the Data Access Layer for the ASP.NET MVC 5 application. Involved in developing Mobile version of the project using Angular 2.0 and Typescript. Developed a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based design of the collaboration product involving designing and creating schemas. Used ASP.NETAJAX Toolkit controls like Script Manager, Update Panel and Modal popup. Worked on Angular controllers, directives, components, factory and service resources, routings and events. Used AJAX and JSON communication for accessing RESTFUL web services data payload. Performed database operations on SQL Server 2014 by creating SQL queries, stored procedures, functions, indexes and views Designed and coded WPF components used to collect display and manipulate data. Involved in hosting application in IIS and creating scripts for database installation on a particular sprint. Developed WCF Services to integrate with SOAP compatible systems and RESTful services are implemented using ASP.NET Web API to support light weight data exchange in ASP.NET MVC UI. Designed application windows using XAML using various WPF controls like Data Grid, Combo Box, Textbox, etc. Designing and developing reports using SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS), Power BI Desktop and Crystal reports. Created databases and schema objects including tables, indexes and applied constraints, connected various applications to the database and written functions, stored procedures and triggers using MS-SQL, T-SQL, PL-SQL and SQL Server 2014. Used SSRS to create reports, customized Reports, on-demand reports, ad-hoc reports and involved in analyzing multi-dimensional reports in SSRS. Involved in developing Packages for data loading and extraction using SSIS, C# and scheduled packages. Development and Deployment usingPower Shell Scripts using Azure. Implement solutions using Azure PaaS features like web jobs, cloud services, Azure SQL Server, service bus, notification hubs. Developed and deployed back-end services toAzureclouds. Developed Power Shell Scripts for Automated Deployment of Developed Packages using Service Fabric. Involved in testing like Unit test, Integration test, Acceptance test and Regression testing using NUnit and responsible for writing test scripts and scenarios. Efficiently handled periodic exporting of SQL data into ElasticSearch. Used SMTP mailclasses of .NET to enable customers in receiving mails with suggestions, alerts from the bank, confirmation, and notifications UsedTFSfor version control of the source code along with the maintenance of the builds and the relevant documents of the same. Environment: .NETFramework 4.5, ASP.NET MVC 5, MS Visual Studio 2015, POWER SHELL, WPF, WCF, JSON, C#, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Entity Framework, SSIS, SSRS, AJAX, Ajax Control Toolkit, Angular (2),Typescript, XML, RESTful, SQL Server 2014, ADO.NET, TFS, Azure Confidential - Indianapolis, IN Sr. .NET Developer Responsibilities: Plan and execute phases of the Software Development Life Cycle utilizing agile methodologies to achieve end-to-end development of web-based applications. Application components are developed in an agile environment utilizing a test-driven development approach. Worked on razor pages in ASP.NET 4.5 web application which is in MVC 5architecture using C# as code behind Used AJAX Tool Kit to increase the functionality of the web page with asynchronous functionality. Used jQuery for Client-Side Validations and AJAX calls to communicate with Controller Actions and WCF Services with JSON Data. Involved in creating rich and interactive UI using CSS, Java Script, Ajax, Angular JS, React JS and REDUX. Implemented client and server-side validations using JavaScript, Knockout JSand ASP.NETvalidation controls. Created rich content Web Forms, Server Controls, Web Services. Used MS Visual Source Safe for source code management. Used ReactJS and REDUX to design the process of building modular, reusableuser interface components simple and intuitive. Developed Single Page Application (SPA) with ASP.NET Web API 2 and Angular JS using Code First Approach in Entity Framework. Used ReactJS fully to transude components, replacing them with new content Worked with Team Foundation Server 2015 for version control of the source code along with the maintenance. Used T-SQL to include querying and making changes in the database, using functions and CRUD statements and Written Triggers, Views and Indexes using SQL Server. Extended a custom domain driven Microservices architecture built on top of ASP.NET Web API and the HTTP protocol. Implemented various features like Partial classes, Anonymous types, Read-Only Properties, Polymorphism and Inheritance of C# in building data entity model. DevelopedUIusing TelerikKendoUI, user controls, layouts and styles which inputs the data and display the data for the web applications using ASP.NET Design and Development of distributed applications that leverage Microservice architecture, RESTful services and other various architectural patterns relational and NoSQL stores and loosely coupled messaging. Developed and consumed WCFServices to achieve Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and communication. Used LINQ to build a set of operations, parameters and expressions (Lambda) while “Querying” a set of data from an SQL Server. Applied multithreaded techniques for creating high performance applications and used to process data in chunks to improve performance. Designed database in MS-SQL and created stored procedures, functions, views to reduce the complication of front-end SQL queries and triggers to enforce entity relationships. Created Stored Procedures for performing repetitive tasks in updating related tables using SQL Server 2014 database. Created Jobs, Packages, and Reporting Services (SSRS), Integration Services (SSIS) on SQL Server Database. Ensured the secure transfer of data from on premise to Azure. Designed archive structure for error logs for auditing purposes using T-SQL and Integration Services. Use of Azure services for HA and DR and Developed security policies for Azure cloud. Developed the Test cases for Unit Testing and Automation Testing using Selenium. Design Azure virtual machines (VMs) and VM architecture for PaaS. Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for source code control, project related document sharing and team collaboration. Environment: MS SQL Server 2014, Visual Studio 2015, C#, ASP.NET 4.5, MVC 5.0, Web API, jQuery, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, Node JS, React JS, Knockout JS Visual Safe, WCF, AJAX, Angular JS, Entity Framework, LINQ, IIS 7.5, NUnit, TFS, SSRS, SSIS, Microservices, Azure Confidential - Indianapolis, IN .NET Developer Responsibilities: Actively Participated in SCRUM meetings discussing the implementation, integration of backlog modules considering the released version of software and best practices for solutions. Designed and developed Web Pages using ASP.NET, C#.NET, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery CSS and Server controls. Used Bootstrap and, Knockout JS UI Framework for developing the responsive web application to be used on Desktop/Tablets or Mobiles Developed the front-end application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JSon. Worked on jQuery that includes AJAX calls for RESTful API’s those were built with ASP.NETWeb API. Used jQuery for client-side scripting and Entity framework as ORM tool with database first approach. Worked extensively on the UI, created Views by utilizing MVC, created View models and wrote client-side validations using jQuery and JavaScript, Bootstrap. Used KnockoutJS that allows to bind the html elements against any data model providing a two-way data binding mechanism. Created rich content Web Forms, Windows Forms, Server Controls, Web Services. Developed SOAP based Middleware using Web Services to read XML files which is to provide communication between data access layer and backend database. UsedTelerikcontrols likeRadChartandRadGridviewto provide richer user experience. Created Menus and Drawer component by using Typescript andknockout JS. Used ASP.NET Server Controls, Validation Controlsand User Controlsfor creating web forms. Developed secure login interfaces with ASP.NET Server controls. Extensive use of MVVM(MVC) and WPF for a unified user interface. Implemented multithreading and parallel processing concept as part of developing WPF application. Programmed ADO.NETin the Data Access Layer for communication between application and the SQL Server database and several modules in the n-tier application. Developed Win Forms and integrated these forms with Windows Services. Created Views by applying complex queries on multiple tables to create the virtual tables and implemented Cursors in Stored Procedures using SQL Server 2008 Implemented Joins in Stored Procedures to get the desired data by joining multiple tables. Worked on PL/SQL objects, performance Tuning and database designing. Involved in Database Designing in SQL Server 2000 and T-SQL, PL/SQL coding. Implemented SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Crystal reports to deliver variety of interactive reports. Used the Event log classes for logging errors. Worked to prevent connection string vulnerability attacks on Oracle DB. Responsible for testing, fixing the bugs and troubleshooting the SQL injection errors. Used Microsoft Entity Framework Code First approach for the Data Access Layer for the ASP.NET MVC 5 application Involved in re-design, re-code, and deploy new data extractions using SSIS, and designed and produced documentation of data transformations for all extractions. Created batch files to trigger the scripts for the application and database deployment and scheduled to run nightly in Task Scheduler. Environment: C#, Visual Studio 2013, SDLC, HTML, CSS, XML, ASP.NET MVC 4/5, WPF, WCF, Win Forms, Java Script, jQuery, Knockout JSSVN, ADO .NET, Ajax, Bootstrap, IIS 6.0, NUnit, SQL Server 2008, JSON, Windows XP, UML, Oracle DB, SSIS, SSRS, Windows Server 2008 R2/2008 Confidential - Birmingham, AL .NET Developer Responsibilities: Gathered business requirements, provided architecture and design for financial module for Medicare Advantage program. Planning and managed projects based on Agile and Waterfall methodology covering the fullrange of the software development life cycle (SDLC). Developed a .NETbatch application responsible for extracting data from FACETS and transferring it to Voyager system (enterprise wide software). Designed User Interfaces using HTML, JavaScript and CSS3 to enhance UI experience on Client-side. Developed a VB.NETbatch application responsible for processing Medicare enrollee information from Voyager into FACETS. Performed conversion of existingclassicASPweb applications intoASP.NET, for various short-term contract projects, utilizing C#. Implemented data transport and processing using JSON and XML. Designed and implemented the User Interface using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, AJAX. Used ASP.NETMVC, HTML5 and CSS3 to design the presentation layer of the website. Used HTML5 for re-designing the web application Prepared various test cases to fix the bugs and ensure the application error-free. Used .NETFramework class library to build user interface that separated application logic from presentation code using code behind pages. Designed and developed Window forms using WPF, and C# .NET as business layer language. Applying Multithreading techniques for creating high performance applications. Migrated old Data into new Database using SSIS Good Experience in various testing phases like Functional, Regression, Retesting, System Testing, Adhoc Testing, Smoke Testing, Sanity Testing, End to End Testing, User Acceptance Testing. Created Stored Procedures using T-SQL, PL-SQL. Created and maintained webcontent and email templates relating to Amazon Web Services. Worked closely with various project stakeholders, SMEs and line of business to understand the new applications along with enhancements to existing applications. Created System Test Plan, Test Strategy, Test cases, Validation Reports, EOT report, Test Execution Summary report, Weekly Status Report, Project Closure activities UsedGITfor version control of the source code along with the maintenance of the builds and the relevant documents of the same. Environment: Visual Studio 2010, SVN, SQL Server 2008, .NET 4.0/3.5, ASP.NET, Classic ASP, VB.NET, C#, Web Services (WCF), AJAX Toolkit, MVC 4.0, JavaScript, JSON, Win Forms, JQuery, T-SQL, PL-SQL, WPF, Prism, Web Services, CSS3, XHTML, HTML5, SCRUM, SSIS, Rational Requisite Pro, Rational Unified Process, Amazon Web Services (AWS), GIT Confidential Software Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for development of forms using Visual Basic .NET. Developed ASP.NET Web Forms using C# depending on the business logic. Designed user interface using Web forms. Used Data Reader, Dataset, and Data Adapter of ADO.NET to have data access from SQL data source. Used ASP.NET state management, and accessibility features in developing the application. Actively involved in testing of the application. Used joins for the flow of data from various tables, and databases. Used cascading sheets for uniformity using Master Pages. Attended and completed any additional responsibilities assigned. Responsible for the design of solution and modification. Environment: C#.NET framework 3, ASP.NET, Winforms, SQL SERVER, VISUAL STUDIO 2008, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, TFS,XML 