SUMMARY: Communications professional with over 15 years of experience in personnel management, customer satisfaction, marketing and operations. Creative, adaptable and analytical mindset with proven success in efficiency and innovation. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Microsoft Office (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, etc.) - Adobe Creative Suite - Various Databases, Survey Applications & CRMs - Website Management - QuickBooks - QuarkXpress - Workforce Management PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential - Charlotte, NC Manager Responsibilities: Management of teh Business Resource Center, which provides litigation and administrative support to all attorneys and staff in 23 offices. Oversight of 28 Specialists and Supervisors across 3 shifts and 4 offices. Accomplish results by managing workload, communicating expectations, planning, monitoring, coaching and counseling of all BRC employees. Liaises with project teams to collectively identify problem resolution strategies and ensures issue resolution/escalation processes are followed to maintain projects on target schedules. Enforce systems, policies, procedures and productivity standards. Creates and maintains change requests, inclusive of all supporting documentation and ensures all change requests are closed out with appropriate statuses. Change Manager also performing roles of Change Coordinator, Change Evaluator, and Change Analyst to support change enablement activities for normal, agile/standard, emergency and latent changes. Responsible for communication with clients and resolution and escalation of issues and solutions. Perform HR functions, including interviewing, hiring, onboarding, and development of staff. Key Skills: Personnel Management - HR Functions - Communication - Process Improvement - Change Management - Customer Service - Project Management - Collaboration - Problem Solving Confidential - Charlotte, NC Change Manager Responsibilities: Responsible for generating customer leads and closing business for residential solar installations throughout teh Carolinas. Additional responsibilities include maintaining a robust sales pipeline, cultivating impactful vendor relationships and meeting project timelines while monitoring industry trends for business development and researching strategies to address performance gaps. Dedicated resource to oversee teh integration and flow of development, testing, deployment, and support Developed, implemented, and supported change control processes for data migration strategies, disaster recovery, enterprise change control, upgrade planning, downtime planning, and go-live planning Performed architectural duties to halp identify, create, and implement processes or products to efficiently manage teh release of code. Optimized efforts of technical resources and strengthened multinational Change Coordinator team performance. Tracked software defects, issues, risks, software change requests, new development requests, deployment and general development tasks. Successfully collaborated with management on company-wide software development and data migration. Key Skills: Marketing - Customer Service - Vendor Relations - Project Management - Data Migration - Software Testing, Development & Implementation - Team Building - Quality Assurance - Time Management Confidential - Miami, FL Manager Responsibilities: Spearheaded firm-wide projects, including teh successful implementation of a streamlined trial exhibit tracking process and user interface, resulting in time savings and improved data quality for trial teams. Additional s included facilitating teh conversion from paper to electronic document filing and improving database management strategies, which reduced labor and storage costs and provided a more efficient document retrieval process. Optimized efforts of technical resources and strengthened multinational Change Coordinator team performance. Facilitated communications between and gained consensus from IT teams. Collaborated with IT partners and business stakeholders regarding change management and championed policy / procedure compliance utilizing SharePoint. Presented processes and value to teams. Coordinated tasks among IT resources, management, and customers. Conducted weekly meetings facilitating discussions and evaluation of proposed changes. Maintained online change calendar and coordinated events with enterprise business calendar; ensured communication with all business stakeholders. Tracked all IT production changes and reported on completion rate, success rate, resources required, and production outages. Provided appropriate data to external audit company. Utilized BMC (Remedy) Service Management tool and Change Management methodologies to support Change function. Conducted complex data quality checks, which resulted in more consistent and reliable reporting. Additionally, developed improved internal communications and conducted continuous on all databases, web applications, and Microsoft products. Key Skills: Database Administration - Data Analyses & Reporting - Process Improvement - Change Management - & Development - Collaboration - Project Management - Communication - Safety & Health - Trial Support - Volunteer Service Confidential - Miami, FL Managing Partner & VP Responsibilities: Responsible for business development and client and vendor relations. Created and managed company website, emails, online networking accounts, and databases. Designed and produced all online and print marketing, stationary, packaging, and product labels. Set up and maintained bookkeeping and reporting in QuickBooks. Fulfilled all import/export documentation and delivery of products for global distribution. Researched products and executed bids for government requests. Key Skills: Business Development - Marketing - Customer Service - Import/Export - Logistics - Vendor Relations Confidential - Miami, FL Senior Survey Specialist Responsibilities: Managed a team of up to 12 surveyors and gatheird teh data collected to prepare reports on improvement plans and business continuity recommendations for clients. Successfully implemented mobile-based surveys to enhance data gathering methods and provide real-time data for immediate service recovery efforts. Continually assisted CEO with pricing structures and cost-reduction strategies for all survey related projects, maximizing profit margins. Key Skills: Personnel Management - Survey, Database & Website Administration - Data Analyses, Reporting & Presenting - HR Functions - Communication - Client & Vendor Relations - Process Improvement - Change Management - Marketing - Project Management - Collaboration - Team Building - Problem Solving Confidential - Miami, FL Operations R&D Assistant Responsibilities: Digitally produced graphics and content for teh BKC Operations Manual, including manager’s guides, upcoming promotions, routine updates, and maintained historical index and log. Compiled survey results for restaurant managers and developed all summary reports and presentations. Trained and oversaw new data collectors and assisted with on-site, restaurant time-studies. Provided assistance with ad hoc projects. Key Skills: Desktop Publishing - Graphic Design - Collaboration - Research & Development - Marketing - Quality Assurance - Survey Administration & Reporting - Food Safety - - Communication 