SUMMARY A seasoned professional with 10+ years of experience in complete software development lifecycle with focus in Business Analysis and Data Analysis. Excellent understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using RUP, Agile, and Waterfall methodology. Experience gathering and analyzing business requirements to develop functional and detailed design specifications. Experience with eliciting requirements from stakeholders via JAD Sessions and interviews. Proficient at using tools such as DOORS, Rational Rose, Req Pro etc. for documenting requirements and as a requirements repository. Proficient in creating UML Diagrams including Use Cases Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Collaboration Diagrams and Deployment Diagrams, Data Flow Diagrams (DFDs). Extensive experience with SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, Teradata, MS Excel, and VBA. Experience in Functional, Performance, Load, Stress, Integration, Regression, and UAT (User Acceptance Testing). Proficient in the Quality Assurance Life Cycle - - developing test strategies, test plans, test cases (manual/automated), defect reports and test scripts. Extensive experience in compiling, verifying, extracting, converting, and validatingdata. Able to identify datainconsistencies and write and tune SQL queries for performance in a largedatavolume environment. Experience in using Rational ClearQuest and Test Director for reporting and tracking bugs. Well versed in developing work breakdown structures, project work plans, timelines, budget and resource allocation PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Mclean, VA Sr. Business Analyst / UAT Lead Responsibilities: Lead the Business Analysis (BA) Team in eliciting, analyzing, documenting, and managing the requirements for all projects under Multifamily Data Program Managed changes to requirements by following the change management process Created and maintained Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) between business requirements and system requirements Developed As-Is and To-Be Data Flow and Process Flow diagrams to facilitate analysis and augment requirements Managed resource allocation across various Business Analysis and UAT activities during the project. Lead UAT through various releases under this program. The UAT team included 6+ business users, 6 testing analysts, and two business analysts. Developed Integrated Test Strategy for UAT, documented the strategy and plan in UAT Test Plan. Identified Test Scenarios and Test Cases. Reviewed Test Scripts authored by various team members Closely coordinated with external vendor (Thomson Reuters) to ensure timely sourcing of CREFC IRP files. Created and distributed a daily status report that detailed progress of all BA and UAT activities. For every release, provided requirements package, test results report, and a package of all test results as part of production deployment documentation. Confidential, Arlington, VA Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Conduct JAD sessions to elicit requirements and document them in the System Requirements Specification (SRS/FRD) using Use Cases and Activity Diagrams. Conduct Gap Analysis to understand the business processes. Develop As-Is and To-Be process flow diagrams. Interface with technical leads and architects to ensure appropriate design is developed. Perform data analysis on large volumes of data and develop data mapping documents to ensure data validity and integrity. Develop ETL jobs, SQL queries, reports, and scripts. Reverse engineer stored procedures and ETL jobs to identify the data translations between systems. Develop dataflow diagrams to visualize the data movement. Create UAT test plan and test cases to ensure complete coverage of requirements. Develop test data to support test execution. Work as a liaison between business and IT to resolve any discrepancies and issues. Confidential, Mc Lean, VA Business/Data Analyst Responsibilities: Established project and system objectives with stakeholders. Developed the Requirement Management Plan. Documented and managed requirements in Rational Req. Pro. Drafted, reviewed, base-lined, and maintained system Use Cases. Created System Requirement Specifications to include process flows and data mapping requirements. Created test scenarios, test plans, and drafted test cases. Guided the business users to develop UAT test strategy and develop UAT test scripts. Created track back mechanisms to better analyze what segment of people responded to a particular offer. Created shell scripts and cron jobs to schedule daily reports Generated various Ad Hoc reports for the Analysts by running queries against the Teradata database. Generated and ran QA scripts to verify the segmentation and offer assignment with the PM using Teradata Performed segmentation validation manually as well as by using the AC tool Confidential, Herndon, VA Business Data Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted JAD sessions for understanding and refining requirements. Created Use Cases, Use Case Diagrams and Activity Diagrams using MS Visio. Supported business for UAT. Developed test plans, test cases, test scripts, test scenarios, and test data. Worked with the QA team to conduct System, Integration, Functional, GUI, Regression, and Smoke testing. Verified outputs against the Oracle database using SQL queries. Validated back-end data using SQL. Documented all defects to ensure application software functionality for present and future builds. Logged defects and created various defect reports. Confidential, Washington, DC Data Analyst Responsibilities: Cleansed the incoming data. The data that came from different counties was in different formats so the data needed to be converted back to one format and checked for errors. Imported the data. Built different scripts to convert the data to one format and imported that data back into the database. Developed rules engine. Developed a rules engine that would double check the existing data for any inconsistencies and fix it intelligently. Generated Reports. Catered to the needs of different organizations in terms of generating ad-hoc reports or providing the necessary data and numbers required by the organizations. Managed Accounts from Organizations. Kept track of hours worked and data provided to different organizations so that the organizations are billed correctly.