SUMMARY: Graduate from BITS Pilani having 8+ years of experience in Database Administration, Design, Development, System Analysis & Supporting MS SQL Server's …, Data/ Business analysis, ETL Development and Data Modeling. Certified SCRUM master, worked in agile - scrum, RUP, Spiral, waterfall methodologies and a knowledgeable data analyst. Proficient in handling multiple responsibilities simultaneously. Strong experience in Business and Data Analysis, Data Profiling, Data Migration, Data Conversion, Data Quality, Data Governance, Data Integration and Metadata Management Services and Configuration Management. Worked in Finance domain with knowledge on regulations based on Dodd Frank, US PATRIOT Act, US FREEDOM Act, KYC, BASEL, BSA, CCAR, FATCA and SOX. Expert in designing relational database model (RDBMS) and implementation as per business needs. Worked with Technical Architects and Database analysts for the Design of Summary tables required for efficient Report Design. Efficient in upgradation and migration from MS SQL Server. Expert in Data Conversion, Normalization, Multi-Dimensional Modeling and involved in creation of Fact Tables, Dimension Tables, Star Schema and Snowflake dimensional schema. Extensively worked in populating aDataWarehouse with Microsoft SQL Server 2010Data Transformation Services.Hands on development experience on the ETL process inDataWarehouse environments with skills on major ETL tools. Proficient in statistical analysis and the use of statistical packages like R, SAS. Hands on experience with large datasets. Proficient in quantitative analytics, forecasting/predictive analytics, multivariate analysis and distribution free analysis. Experienced in performing Data mining with all these statistical techniques. Extensive experience in writing Complex Transact SQL (T-SQL) Queries, Sub queries, Co-related sub queries, joins, Dynamic SQL queries etc. Good experience in development of reports using Crystal Reports, XML, Excel Spreadsheet, SSIS, SSRS, and Data Reports. Experience in various phases of Software Development life cycle (Analysis, Designing) with expertise in documenting various requirement specifications, functional specifications, Test Plans, Source to Target mappings, SQL Joins. Experience in creating indexed Views, complex Stored Procedures, appropriate functions, and effective Triggers to facilitate efficientdatamanipulation anddataconsistency.Designed DTS and SSIS Packages to periodically update theDatawarehouse. Excellent Knowledge in SQL Server Administration, SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS). Conversant in Database Installation, Capacity Planning, Implementing Backup and Recovery Strategy for application and database. A self-starter, strong leader, vocal and efficient multitasker. Passionate about learning new technologies, keeping up with latest industry trends. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Database & Server: Oracle, MS SQL server, MS Access, PostgreSQL, Hadoop, Hive, HBase, MySQL, TOAD Project Methodology: Rational Unified Process (RUP), Agile and Waterfall Packages: MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint), MS Visio, MS Project Languages: SQL, R programming, C, and Python BI Reporting Tools: Tableau, Micro strategy, Crystal Reports, Cognos 10 (report & Query studio), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS), Micro strategy reporting system, HP ALM, SSIS, Pentahoo, OFSAA Financial and Financial modeling: Equities, Fixed Income, securities, foreign exchange, bonds and derivatives, insurance, mutual funds and check processing, trading & risk environment, credit, interest rates, equity, foreign exchange, treasuries and Mortgage concept Data Warehousing: Data Marts, OLTP, OLAP, ROLAP, DOLAP, MOLAP, HOLAP, Query/Reporting, Data modelling, Data mapping, Data Mining, Multidimensional Analysis, Data Mining, Slicing/dicing, Drill Down/Roll Up, MDM ETL Tools: Informatica, SSIS, Sqoop, Oracle Data Integrator, Pentahoo Design: Entity-Relationships, Data Flow Diagrams QA Testing Tools: HP QC, JIRA, Rally, IBM Rational Performance Tool, VersionOne Statistical Tool: R, SAS, Excel 2007/2010, Access 2003/2007, Minitab, StatPad, SPSS Statistical Techniques: Multi Variate Analysis (MVN, SVM, SEM, PC, FA, PLS), Regression Analysis, Clustering, Non Parametric analysis Business Modeling Tools: Rational Rose Enterprise Suite, Rational Requisite Pro, MS Visio, Clear Case, Clear Quest, SharePoint 2007, Rational DOORS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, San Ramon, CA Business System Analyst Responsibilities: CDD has been implemented for different type’s accounts through different applications. Scope of the project was identified and divided into three work streams. 	Establish a workflow with minimum changes to the existing applications to collect the data from all the 16 million legacy customers. Identify and qualify a call center vendor team to call these customers and capture this data using the application and capturing the data into the CDD database. Maintenance of the customer records and updating a single record from multiple systems for a single customer. Worked with the development team in pre-analysis to list down the possible solutions for this project and provided insights to the business regarding the pros and cons of each solution. Captured As - Is process flow based on discussion with subject matter experts, team members and documentation available in the SharePoint. Captured the issues and initial basic business rules that are to be considered for the vendor data bought from Lexis Nexis and DNB for the legacy customers to be loaded into the a production database called stage CDD of the ODS (Operational data store) and make it accessible to all the front end applications. Documented the To - Be state of the project and how the overall system should look like. Provided more insight on the data structure of the vendor data and ODS to the developers. Documented dependencies, assumptions, risks and limitations as a part of the Technical design document. Data mapping is the crucial job that was captured carefully to make sure all the applications are able to read the same data of the customer. Explored Touchpoint & OBT the onboarding tools for the deposit customers, worked on the address validation implementation in OBT. Worked on the QA environment of GOCDD (Non-Deposit customer on boarding tool) to understand the process flow and explored the feasibility of the use of this application to support capturing the data of legacy customers. Worked with Data architect to understand how ODS (Stage, CDI, IRIS Extracts) works and explored the possibility of loading the vendor data into the StageCDD and captured the issues in doing the same. Queried on Ripley Database using Toad to capture the counts and reported the same. Environment: Java, AML, CDD, HPQC, SOA, Visio, Mockup Screens, ETL, UML, SharePoint 2013, SQL Server Services, Toad, Tableau, Data Mapping and Informatica. Confidential, Phoenix, AZ Sr. Business Analyst / Scrum Master Responsibilities: Conducted gap analysis for the operational risk management for data management and analysis. Gathering requirements such as focus group, one on one and JAR. Conducted GAP analysis, impact analysis, Feasibility studies as& when required, also tracking KPI’s in order to identify trends and monitor the business. Worked with SME’s and created targeted Questionnaire to gather requirements to match and analyze the requirements of the business in relation to the new KYC requirements and AML regulation by the SEC. Delivered artifacts such as FRD with Low Level Documents (LLD) and SRS and supported various technical stakeholders. Based on the requirements developed used cases for each functional requirement and compliance scenarios. Implemented KYC practices in relation to Bank Secrecy Act and Anti-Money Laundering (BSA/AML). Implemented flagging Case management, analysis and reporting in relation to SAR, CDD, FACTA compliance. Facilitated in integrating case management to visual analytics for advanced analysis and reporting using visual analytics. Implemented case management and developed scenario portfolio for relevant cases to be structured and implemented on flagging the operational data (OLTP) and transferred them into OLAP cubes for building audit trails for drill down. Facilitated in the integration of payment network, credit/debit, mortgage, insurance data back end and accessed the metadata and data for management (MDM). Facilitated the development team to sign Service Level Agreements (SLA) for multiple web services to get and access information from other applications in a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). Monitored and helped developers understand the web services to develop relevant web methods to request required information for the middle tier from other application in XML code and worked on data mapping. Provided FRD and developed the functional and nonfunctional requirements, business rules, use cases, mock ups and wire frame (Visio), UML methodologies to design Use Case Diagrams, Data Flow Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams. Provided user stories, story points, worked on epic user stories and back logs grooming, providing the acceptance criteria, updated sprint velocity and maintained burn down charts. Conducted Sprint planning, daily scrum, Sprint review and Sprint retrospective meeting. Conducted JAD, Operational Risk Management and implemented Change Management. Was involved in writing test cases and worked closely with the quality analyst in writing the test cases. Provided Requirement Tractability Matrix (RTM) in tracing back to the function requirement and tech spec tracing back to the requirement gathered by me. Environment: Java, Scrum, AML, HPQC, SOA, Visio, Mockup Screens, Agile, ETL, UML, SharePoint 2013, SQL Server Services, Toad, Tableau and Informatica. Confidential, St Petersburg, FL Data warehouse & BI application Data & BI Analyst Responsibilities: Done Technical Feasibility Study and recommended the Optimal Solution. Involved in ETL process Using Data Integrator for moving data from source to target databases Developed conceptual data model followed by logical data model establishing all the entity relationships among all the entities. Data migration from flat files and other logs into the database by identifying relevant tables and data types. Worked on data analysis, data mapping and reports to establish Entity Relationships(ER). Identified all the attributes for each entity and established primary keys and foreign keys between various entities to finalize the physical data model. Achieved 3NF for all the tables in the OLTP system to make sure the data is not duplicated and not redundant. Also made sure there are no loops in the entity relationships. Generated several Metadata reports for ETL mapping, and job execution statistics. Designed and developed hundreds of Data Integrator programs. Created Business Objects Universes for the Purchase Inquiries as per the requirements for OLAP functionality. Created various Classes, Objects and also tested them to ensure correct mapping of data. Dimension objects and Measure objects were created both at the Universe level and at the Report level to meet the requirements. Defined and created Hierarchies as per the business rule for the reports to be viewed at selected reporting level. Created user prompts, conditions and filters for various reports to specify the reporting parameters. Created reports using Free-Hand SQL Data providers. Published and retrieved documents through Info view. OLTP system is developed and tested with various test data. Developed various store procedures and triggers to extract consolidated information from the database for the sake of executive business users which can facilitate in decision making. Worked on Business Intelligence (BI) tools like Oracle Business intelligence Enterprise Edition (OBIEE).Developed reports with business objects functionalities like slice and dice, drill down. Involved in building data cubes and establishing appropriate dimensions and facts. Provided pivot tables, Documented the entire work done and transferred the knowledge to end users. Environment: ERWIN, Data modeling, Visual Studio, Microsoft SQL Server, SSAS, Visual Paradigm Confidential, Framingham, MA Statistical Consultant Responsibilities: Involved in Data mapping specifications to create and execute detailed system test plans. Analyzed business requirements, system requirements, data mapping requirement specifications, and responsible for documenting functional requirements and supplementary requirements in Quality Center. Tested Complex ETL Mappings and Sessions based on business user requirements and business rules to load data from source flat files and RDBMS tables to target tables. Collected historical sales data from various OLTPs across the organization. Closely worked with the ETL Developer while Performing ETL using Informatica into the Data warehouse. The online orders data is 25 GB in various formats like excel text log files. Performed Data cleaning to eliminate missing values based on eliminating the record or regression or decision tree. Used all three techniques to make sure data quality is improved. Performed Factor Analysis (FA) based on identifying correct Latent Variables (LV). Used Principal Components (PC) to reduce the dimensions of the data. Performed data cleaning and summary statistics to understand the distribution and quality of the data. Monthly Sales forecasting is done using ARIMA and tested for 2 months to obtain a 96% accuracy in forecasting. Fine tuning based on factors has been done based on weekends, national holidays, festivals and other promotional events. Daily forecasting and weekly forecasting models developed with the help of linear regression and PLS models. 93% accuracy reported for 4 weeks period. Explored various models suitable for the Scheduling Forecast outliers. Developed a model to forecast the Sales in store for every 15 minutes using the time series sales data. Modeled using Quantile Regression method to forecast hourly sales in a store. Environment: PostgreSQL, R, SAS Enterprise Guide, SAS, Multi-variate Analysis, Regression, Quantile Regression, ARIMA, SSIS, SSAS, MSSQL, Partial Least Square Regression. Confidential  Business Intelligence & Web Application Business Data Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in JAD sessions with Business, SME for Business Analysis, requirement understanding, Solution Designing, Data Modeling, Configuration, Data Migration as well as conducting end-user . Build the organization's role hierarchy by adding the Roles as per the organization structure and created custom profiles to satisfy the organization's hierarchy. Gathered requirements, analyzed, and wrote the design documents Provided End-user and documentation for customer reporting services. Participated in the Analysis, Design and Development Phases of report development, performance tuning and production rollout. Performed data analysis and data profiling using complex SQL on various sources systems. Wrote SQL queries on the databases wrote test validation scripts and performed system testing. Wrote SQL scripts to test the mappings and developed traceability matrix of business requirements mapped to test scripts to ensure any change control in requirements leads to test case update. Involved in extensive Data validation by writing several complex SQL queries and involved in back-end testing and worked with data quality issues. Worked on daily basis with lead Data Warehouse developers to evaluate impact on current implementation, redesign of all ETL logic. Created technical specifications documents based on the functional design document for the ETL coding to build the data mart. Designed and implemented report layouts according to reporting standards of the department. Owned the assigned reports, worked on them and updated the Report Development Scheduler for status on each report. Responsible for making the report available for scheduling or viewing on demand. Worked with Technical Experts to Improve Report Performance and performed System testing. Environment: MSSQL, SSAS, SSIS, Informatica, Flat Files, Log Files, OLAP, Cubes, .Net, HTML Confidential  Data Warehouse (DWH) & Business Intelligence (BI) Business / Data Analyst Responsibilities: Working on Data warehouse, reports and historical data. Creating databases, reporting and contract documentation. Working on price files and creation mapping documents. Design, deploy and monitor indirect procurement metrics. Automation of ETL process and establishing appropriate transformations on the data to achieve consistency in the process without any deviations. Data Migration and metadata management was crucial for maintaining data quality, data integrity, data lineage and establishing entity relationships. Experience in data analysis, strong SQL, Excel and Access. Create and deploy targeted category strategies supported by robust analysis and research. Develop, refine and analytical solutions, data intensive systems. Worked on construct meaningful and persuasive business cases and productively influence multiple functions and senior management. Conducting studies, rapid pilots, and use advanced data mining and modeling techniques to build solutions that optimize the quality and performance of data. Developed data cubes by identifying appropriate dimensions and facts based on business insights to facilitate business users’ decision making. Environment: MSSQL, SSAS, SSIS, Informatica, SAS, SAS DI Studio, Tableau, Teradata - SQL Server Assistant. Confidential  Credit & Capital Risk Management Business / Data Analyst Responsibilities: Worked on Mortgage, Auto & BB Waterfall Exclusion data modeling for BASEL data warehouse project. Interacted with business and developer team for data validation and defect tracking. Developing, analyzing and troubleshooting production code and other automated systems. Responsible for generating weekly, monthly and quarterly reports as per the requirement and running them as per the schedules.Data Visualization and Analytical professional using Tableau to: Analyze and obtain insights into large data sets, create visually compelling and actionable interactive reports and dashboards.Define specification, design and build of Tableau Desktop reports and dashboards. Installation, set up and administration of Tableau Server Interact with Project Managers to understand reporting requirements to translate into SAS code. Good understanding of BRD, UAT and functional documents. Environment: SAS, SAS Enterprise Guide, VersionOne Control, BOBJ, Tableau, Teradata - SQL Server Assistant. 