SUMMARY Over 7 years of Industry experience as a Business Analyst with solid understanding of Business Requirements Gathering, Evaluating Data Sources, Translating Requirements into Specifications and Application Design. Extensive knowledge of the insurance domain (Life, Health, Property and Casualty Insurance) Participated in JAD sessions to gather, synthesize and prioritize requirements using interviews, document analysis, requirements workshop, etc. Performed Gap analysis by identifying existing technologies, documenting the enhancements to meet the end state requirements and hands on experience in Supply Chain Management (SCM). In depth knowledge of UML (OOAD) and RUP methodologies and proficient in creating Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Class Diagrams etc. Proficient in Manual Testing - Functional, Database, Black Box, Positive/Negative, Regression, User Acceptance. In depth knowledge of different perils of insurance including Property and Casualty, Health Insurance and Personal Line Insurance. Effective at interviewing business users, stakeholders and subject matter experts (SME's) and eliciting needs and translating those needs into concise functional and non-functional requirements Excellent writing skills in preparing BRD, SRS, Functional Specifications and Project Plans. Automation Testing using Functional Automation Testing tools - Quick Test Professional (QTP) - with extensive knowledge of VB Scripting for creating, enhancing and maintaining test scripts. Understanding of Relational Database (RDBMS) concepts and extensive experience in Backend Database Testing. Expertise in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Defect Management Life Cycle. Excellent oral and written communications, negotiation, analytical, and presentation skills with a positive and flexible attitude. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing Tools: Quick Test Professional (QTP), Load Runner Bug Tracking Tools: Quality Center, Bugzilla Languages: C++, Visual Basic, SQL Scripting Language: VBScript, JavaScript, Shell Scripting, Perl Scripting, PHP, Ruby Databases: Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server 2000, MySQL, MS-Access Database Tools: TOAD, SQL *plus OS: Windows Vista/XP/NT/2000/98, Unix Browsers: Internet Explorer, Netscape Navigator, Mozilla Firefox, Safari Web Technologies: HTML, XML, XHTML Documentation Tools: MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Project) GUI Tools: MS Visio, Rational Rose, Crystal Reports PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Boston, MA Business Financial Analyst Responsibilities: Accumulated system requirements from various departments through surveys and interviews. Conducted JAD sessions with management, users and other stakeholders for open and pending issues. Defined and analyzed requirements using USE CASE model tools. Incorporated Rational Unified Process (RUP) to create Business Requirement Document Specifications using MS Visio and MS Word. Planned and defined system requirements to Wire Frames with Use Case, Use Case Scenario and Use Case Narrative using the UML (Unified Modeling Language) methodologies. Created Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and ER Diagrams in MS Visio. Responsible for meetings with users and stakeholders to identify problems, resolve issues and improve the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution. Created exceptions report which were then submitted to project lead and stakeholders on a regular basis. Performed manual front-end testing to check all functionalities of different modules. Suggested measures and recommendations to improve the current application performance. Developed strategies with Quality Assurance group to implement Test Cases in Mercury Test Director for stress testing Assisted the SA to document all custom and system modification after the issues and enhancements were satisfactorily solved. Created and managed project templates, use case project templates, requirement types and traceability relationships and managed the concurrence of the parties involved with respect to the evaluation criterion Environment: MS Visio, MS Word, Rational Rose, Rational Test Manager, sharepoint 2010,SAP DATAWARE HOUSE Confidential, Atlanta, GA Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Formulated documents as per business requirements for existing and future business systems. Identified, researched, realized, investigated, analyzed, defined and documented business processes and Use Case Scenarios. Participated in full project life cycle, including gathering user requirements, screen and report design, in addition to implementation and roll out. Designed and documented detailed business requirements and functional requirements. Worked alongside with cross functional teams in order to establish comprehensive business and functional requirements and then translating those requirements into software design specifications using various notations of UML for designing and documenting the detailed business and functional requirements. Acted as a liaison between business staff and technical staff to articulate needs, issues and concerns as per department requirements. Analyzed and prioritized key reports for day to day servicing needs for products monitoring processing and Inspection. Was responsible for developing and managing project plans: system requirements, change management policy standard and procedures by utilizing Rational Unified Process (RUP). A strong emphasis on developing and producing daily, weekly, monthly reports for different departments was produced. Ensured better compatibility and easier maintenance of application within the IT structure. Integrated static data with other systems to maintain a central repository of common data. Ensured that project/requirement(s) are properly tracked and documented as per Project Manager’s needs. Assisted with user testing of systems (UAT), developing and maintaining quality procedures, and ensuring that appropriate documentation is in place. Assisted the IS and Technical team in understanding and developing the functionality. Conducted JAD sessions with business unit owners and portfolio team to capture business requirements and system behavior. Worked with the UAT team to validate that the developed application will meet the business requirements. Identified and documented issues, risks, gaps and their impact to the project life cycle. Provided recommendations and alternatives and performed Gap Analysis for Training purposes. Used the guidelines and artifacts of the Rational Unified Process (RUP) to strategize the Implementation of Rational Unified Process effort in different iterations and phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Documented application features and operations in detail, including screen layouts, business rules, process diagrams, pseudocode and other documentation. Environment: Rational Unified Process (RUP), Rational Suite (RequisitePro, ClearQuest), MS Office Suite, MS Visio, MS Project, Windows XP, Oracle 9i, Mercury Test Director Confidential, Dallas, TX Business Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) in RUP framework. Performed the ROI and ROM studies Analyzed and collected business requirements, identified system interfaces and created the requirements specification document. Applied Unified Modeling Language (UML) methodologies to design Communication Diagram, Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagram and ER diagrams. Extensively interacted with both user group and development team. Managed and tracked change control process of requirements and design changes. Documented the changes, issues and their impact on the system design and delivery. Provided documentation such as requirements management plans, functional requirements, test plans and test cases. Prepared Requirement Traceability Matrix using Rational Requisite Pro Incorporated the best practice methodologies as advocated by the Rational Unified Process. Designed and analyzed Business Process Model, Use Case model and test procedures based on RUP methodology. Performed requirement analysis by gathering both functional and non-functional requirements based on interactions with the process owners & stake holders and document analysis. Performed user interviews. Involved in Call handling, Monitoring processes and CRS work force management processes Worked extensively with MS Project for resource management and allocation Worked with MS Power Point for presentations Used Rational Clear Quest and Clear Case for Change Management and Configuration Management. Wrote user requirements specification (URS) and Functional requirements specification (FRS) Documents as per the Business requirements and process flow. Performed Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database Involved in Quality Assurance maintaining Software quality standards and Software quality Matrices Designed and developed project templates based on RUP Methodology Developed UML Use Cases for the application and prepared the detailed Work flow diagram based on the proposed enhancement for the system. Developed modules in the HR department for educating and training the user about the new system. Acted as User Acceptance Testing coordinator and monitored business testing and interfaced with the development team regarding defect status and fixes on daily basis. Environment: Oracle 8x/9i, Asp. Net, MS Project, MS Office Suite, Rational Requisite Pro, RUP, UML, Clear Case 2002, Rational Clear Quest 2002, MS office suite 2003, MS Visio 2003. Confidential, Buffalo, NY Business Financial Analyst Responsibilities: Created Context Based Help on the various sign up pages to increase retention rate of applicants filling out mortgage forms. Acted as the main requirements analyst for creating an XML based middleware so other groups in the company can also query the created middleware for rate information. Involved in the RUP project development methodology. Thoroughly documented all existing applications to be replaced using Visio. Led and developed detailed workflow analysis for areas not automated. Developed high-level design of new processes, graphically presented along with text based requirements to IT management. Assisted analysts in building weekly and monthly transaction reports. Used ClearCase and ClearQuest for version control and defect tracking. Conducted JAD sessions to refine prototypes, prioritize and time-box use cases. Interviewed clients and defined functional and non-functional requirements, captured in Requisite Pro. Assisted in preparation of Request for Proposal (RFP) for finding out the right vendor for off the shelf products like mortgage calculator and mortgage Education Center. Defined high-level system actors and Use Case text reflecting the scope of the project. Generated initial use-case diagrams using UML in Rational Rose. Documented test cases during requirements, analysis and design phases. Environment: Rational RequisitePro, Rational Rose, Rational ClearCase, Rational ClearQuest, RUP Methodology, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Office suite, Visio Confidential, Charlotte, NC Business Analyst Responsibilities: Effectively communicate project expectations, project goals and scope to the team. Facilitated team meetings to coordinate activities for project schedules, presented deliverables to the management, conducted to elicit requirements. Define, prioritize, and track requirements throughout the project lifecycle, software development teams are able to respond rapidly to ever-changing requirements without risking the project success. Perform analysis on project scope parameters (gap analysis, usability, cost /benefit etc.) Conducted JAD sessions with SMEs, system architects, technical teams and other stakeholders for open and pending issues Responsible for managing the documented system requirements and mapped using MS Excel for Requirements Traceability Matrix Worked with developers in design/development activities in converting SSRS reports into the SQL database and manage all the electronic records in the system. Managed requirements to minimize scope issues. Understand all systems requirements within deliverable and provide feedback, collected requirements from customers, users and prioritized them. Prepared Business Process Models that includes modeling of all the activities of the business from the conceptual to procedural level. Followed top down, leveled technique for building Business Process Models. Insure project deliverables are on time and on budget while meeting customer satisfaction expectations Performed gap analysis between current performance and desired performance (i.e. critical customer requirements) Developed Test Requirements Matrix using Traceability Wrote test cases for functional testing and integration testing Examined, analyzed and modeled Test plans, Test Scripts, Use Case Model cases & Test procedures based on RUP methodology. Tracked reviewed analyzed and compared defects using test director Designed Developed and managed QA process Collaborated with Quality Assurance Analyst in Automated Regression testing and black box testing using Mercury's Win Runner. Responsible for integration testing, functional testing, white box testing and system testing (Manual) Wrote clear, concise detailed system requirements specification (SRS) documents and user documentation in accordance to guidelines and standards of a level where developers can interpret, design and develop the application with minimum guidance. Presented management reports to the project manager in handling whole project Create Wireframes using MS Visio Environment: UML, SQL Server, Load Runner, Win Runner, Quality Center, Microsoft Dynamics, Lotus Notes, Windows NT, OOAD, Java Script, Dashboard, Rational Suite, MS Access, MS Project, MS Visio, Visual Basic and Test Director. 