SUMMARY 11 Years of progressive IT experience in all the phases of software development life cycle that includes Requirement Study & Analysis, Design, implementation and testing of various client/server, web applications and Force.com projects. Proficient in Requirement gathering and documenting which includes Conducting User Interviews, transforming business requirements into user requirement specification, Functional Requirement. Developed BRDs, FRDs and maintained RTMs through every phase of a project. Strong background in GAP analysis, SWOT analysis and ROI Analysis. Well acquainted with various testing strategies such as Functionality testing, Black - End testing, Sanity testing, User Acceptance testing, Smoke Testing and Regression Testing Hands on experience working and coordinating with Off-shore team throughout Product Development Lifecycle. Excellent problem solving and Analytical skills. Strong domain knowledge on Banking Acquiring and Issuing of Cards E-commerce and CRM. Adept in reviewing Test Procedures, creating Test plans, defining System Integration and User Acceptance Test Cases and also assisting in Post-Production support. Excellent problem solving and analytical skills. Good knowledge of industry standards like Capability maturity Model & HIIPA. Expertise in leading short- and long-term planning sessions to ensure understanding of business goals, objectives and direction. Expertise in mapping business requirements to testing solutions (Deliverables:- Test Plan, Test Scenarios Test Cases, Test Log, Test summary reports and Defect Reports) Proficiency in producing high quality requirement package. Proficiency in preparing planning documents and written reports. Proficient in Agile and Waterfall methodology. Extensive exposure to software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies Expert level skills in interacting with business users & Product Owners to analyze and understand the Business Process requirements. TECHNICAL SKILLS SFDC: Custom Apps, Objects, Tabs, Security Controls, Sharing Settings, Reports, Dashboards, Assignment rules, Workflow rules, Approval Process, Communication Templates, Import Wizards, Packages, Communities, Sandbox Refreshments, Portals, Analytic Snapshots, Web-to-Lead and Web-to-Case deployments. Databases: Oracle 9i/10g, MS SQL Server Force.com Tools/Utilities: Force.com IDE, Eclipse, Force.com Platform (Sandbox and Production) Languages: JavaScript, VB Script Reporting Tools: JIRA, Remedy UML: MS Visio PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, McLean, Virginia Business Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in building the Salesforce CRM Application for Confidential, VA. Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements. Performed effectively in agile software development environment, supporting frequent requirement elicitation, development and testing in constant business presence. Analyzed the scope of the Requirements and managed requirements to avoid Scope Creep. Participated in Requirement Gathering Sessions & JAD Sessions. Created user Roles, Profiles and sharing settings. Created various Reports and Report folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the needs of the organization. Conducted the UAT with the Business users and gathering feedback and providing the same to the Development team. Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts and field updates. Developed a web-to-Lead functionality to vertrue.com which directs leads to Salesforce CRM Created custom Dashboards for Manager’s home page and gave accessibility to dashboards for authorized people Created new custom objects, assigned fields, designed page layouts, custom tabs, components, custom reports Reviewing the test cases provided by the QA team and providing feedback. Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields on the custom objects. Implemented Web to Case, Email to Case functionalities to provide a better support to the customers. Confidential, Florida System Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in complete implementation of the business unit’s need for Salesforce to manage their Sales/Service Cloud requirement. Created Customized reports and dashboards. Led client facilitation meeting to elicit business process requirements from subject matter experts and translated them into functional requirements, authored the same in Business Requirement Document. Captured workflow, screen navigation and all data processing requirements Mapped high level requirements to application level and got into discussions and weekly demos with clients to explain the same so that correct things are in court along with correct deadlines. Created Use Cases diagrams and Business process flow using MS Visio Co-ordinate efforts with Business System Analyst to translate the business and user needs into system requirements specification document In charge of conducting the UAT with the Business Users and gathering feedback and providing the same to the development team. Provided assistance in designing test plans, test scenarios and test case for integration, regression and user acceptance testing (UAT) to improve overall quality of the application Managed Communication with the QA & testing team to ensure that functionality and quality was being met as per the agreed upon Service Level Agreement. Coordinated User Acceptance Testing and worked aggressively to obtain closure on open items Confidential, Iselin, NJ Sr. Business Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in gathering, analyzing and documenting business requirements and configured Salesforce.com by creating fields, workflows, page layouts, approvals and Validation rules. Was part of the project team in prioritizing deliverables and negotiated on functionalities. Performed detailed requirement gathering by conducting meeting with business users, end users. Analyzed the current system and performed Gap analysis in order to migrate into new platform Performed detailed requirement gathering by conducting meeting with business users, end Users and Client. Created user guide based on customer requirements Performed deployments from Test to production environment Monitored test progress and respond to user questions Provided work direction and support to other resources helping to create test scripts and to keep track of testing Documented clearly all issues and the steps taken to resolve the issue in the knowledge base. Created user guide based on customer requirements. Documented support procedures and operational workarounds. Confidential Salesforce Administrator Responsibilities: Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization. Interface with the key stakeholders, translating business requirements into SFDC Configured various Custom Reports and Dashboards for different user profiles based on the needs of the organization Designed and developed Custom objects, Record Types, Formula fields, validation Rules, Page layouts, workflow rules, tasks, email and alerts to track customer related tasks and activities. Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, custom buttons, related lists and other components on record pages. Deployed Apex using Force.com IDE Develop document, and execute test plans to assess the integrity and accuracy of business processes, module functionality setups and modifications, enhancements, customizations, and patches. Created E-mail templates for the clients and customers Developed workflows for Lead conversion, transfers, merging duplicates, managing web-to-lead to track responses to online campaigns. Perform application configuration, testing and evaluation to ensure quality and consistency Confidential Salesforce Administrator Responsibilities: Involved in Designing and developing a web portal that allows the business to create accounts for Salesreps and key in orders. Developed and customized various Salesforce.com standard objects and custom objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products and Price books, Cases, Lead, Campaigns, Forecasting, Reports and Dashboards. Created custom field and field dependencies on standard objects like Campaign, Leads, Accounts and Contacts. Administered and monitored the company’s Salesforce CRM application. Created the workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation and email alert. Created Profiles, Roles based on Organization role hierarchy and implemented Record-level and Field-level Security and configured sharing Settings. Created Pick lists, dependent pick lists lookups fields, junction objects, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields. Used Salesforc.com platform to identify issues and gaps in current reporting format and suggested implementation of the Analytical tools to enhance Reporting and Data consolidation. Confidential Project Lead/Business Analyst Responsibilities: Understanding of Business requirement and preparing functional specification. Preparing the Technical specifications by resolving the all the queries. Prepared the various report for the collector tallies and class tallies and Account balance reports. Responsible for Implementation of the entire enhancement on delivery date. Supporting the UAT and Regression defects. Solving the defect on resolution time. To track status of Compliance changes every 6 which includes changes to MasterCard/Visa and also based/global code change to Vision Plus product. Involved in training with Tieto at their headquarters in Latvia and designed the Mashreq Acquiring functionality Requirement gathering for new enhancements/developments to existing system. Involved in detailing project mission, data process flow diagrams and timelines. Used MS Visio to develop Use Cases. Participate in problem solving. Confidential Project Lead/Business Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for Analysis, Design, and testing of project. Responsible for Pre-Implementation and post-Implementation of project. Responsible for monitoring and checking production system after implementation. As a Project lead responsible to support and help the team and Project progress and success implementation of project. Client interaction for update job status reports for management and client. Coordination with development team Tieto in Latvia and explained the flow diagrams and the business process. Explaining the functional process to Tieto development team in Latvia trained the Acquiring solution with the Use Case diagrams using Visio. Ensure the Successful release of the product after a thorough regression testing. Confidential System Analyst Responsibilities: Requirements gathering with high level of interaction with the clients and end-users to understand Business Rules and requirements of Confidential . Involved in all phases of Project implementation. Done required VisionPlus parameter setup for CMS. Responsible for Analysis, Design, development, Testing and Implementation of project. Responsible to support and help the team and Project progress and success implementation of project. Responsible for Basic program coding, writing queries, writing new online programs. Participate in problem solving. Worked closely with matrixes cross functional teams. Conducted regular Go/No-Go Meetings, Review meetings and Test analysis. Worked with offshore team to resolve production issues and push change sets effectively. Involved in Launch of paypass Card Acquiring and Cashback. Confidential Project Lead Responsibilities: Requirements gathering with high level of interaction with the clients and end-users about Credit card loan. Responsible for Pre implementation and post implementation of this project. Preparing documents for Credit cards loan System design. Review detailed design deliverables to ensure they meet the Business Requirements and IT requirements. Responsible for Analysis, Design, development, Testing and Implementation of project. Responsible for Basic program coding, writing queries, writing new online programs. Monitor and manage progress of their assigned work. Coding, compilation and debugging. Preparation of System & Task flow chart. Confidential Project Lead Responsibilities: Responsible for Analysis, Design, development, testing of project. Responsible for Pre-Implementation and post-Implementation of project. Responsible for monitoring and checking production system after implementation. As a Project lead responsible to support and help the team and Project progress and success implementation of project. Responsible for Basic program coding, writing queries, writing new online programs. Maintaining and supporting the Visionplus Application data on AS400 Planning and scheduling the task. Client interaction for update job status reports for management and client. Responsible for VISIONPLUS parameter setup for CMS module. Confidential System Analyst Responsibilities: Requirements gathering with high level of interaction with the clients and end-users to understand Business Rules and Requirements. Involved in all phases of project implementation Done required Visionplus parameter setup Responsible for Analysis, Design development, Testing and Implementation of Project Responsible to support and help the team and project progress and successfully implement the project Responsible for basic program coding, writing queries and writing new online programs. Participate in problem solving. Assist business to finalize Testing strategies for any new changes into existing system. Confidential System Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for Implementation of all fixes and enhancements. To track status of Compliance changes every 6 months which includes changes to Visa/MasterCard and also based global code change to Vision Plus product. Impart training to new members of Onsite team about Visionplus batch flow and system knowledge. Requirement gathering for new enhancements/developments to existing system. Assist business to finalize Testing strategies for any new changes into existing system Supporting the Regression Testing in the areas of Trams/ITS for various enhancements done in release.