SUMMARY: An innovative, detailed oriented and technologically savvy Business Analyst/Systems Analyst with over 8 years of Professional experience, and successful background in Business Analysis, Business Modeling, Requirement Gathering, Technical Documentation, Software Validation, Data Analysis, Software testing in Insurance, Mortgage, Automobile and Transportation domains. A solid understanding of Business Requirements Gathering, Business Process Flow, Use Case Modeling using UML, Data Modeling, Software Development Methodologies, Business Process Modeling, and Business Analysis. Hands - on Experience in creating Work-Breakdown structure, Project charter, Business Cases, Scope-Vision documents. In-depth Knowledge in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including waterfall, V-Model, Agile-scrum and Rational Unified Process (RUP). Extensive experience in conducting Risk Analysis, Impact Analysis and GAP Analysis and preparing Problem Statement Matrix. Experience in conducting Joint Application Development (JAD)and Joint Application Requirements(JAR) sessions with end users, SMEs, and stakeholders to drive out detailed business requirements and resolving pertaining conflicting issues. Extensive experience with process modeling using Unified Modeling Language (UML), preparing graphical depictions of use cases including state diagrams, activity diagrams, sequence diagrams, Data Flow Diagrams (DFD), use case diagrams, including the business workflow using Rational Rose and MS Visio and Static Wire Frames using mock-up tools to assist UI/UX team in UI Prototype designing. Strong knowledge on SOA Architecture, Internal and external Web Services (SOAP, WSDL and UDDI, API). Hands-on experience in MS Project to map the work breakdown structure (WBS) to manage schedules, status reporting and plan resources in line with the triple constraints. Expertise in supporting Project manager to map the work breakdown structure, schedule management, timely status reporting. Proficient in creating and analyzing Business Requirements Document (BRD), Functional Specifications Document (FSD), Systems Requirements Specifications (SRS), Use Case scenarios, and user stories. Strong experience in conducting User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and documentation of test cases. Expertise in designing and developing test plans and test scripts. Worked in close co-ordination with the testing team in developing Test plan and Test cases from functional and business requirements. Expertise in the management of User Request Change, and handling User Conflicts. Expertise in handling Change Management and conducting Impact Analysis to better understand areas affected by the change. Experience working with cross functional teams and multi-location based projects across USA and Europe. Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and documentation skills along with good process management skills. Dedicated & Self- motivated, proven leadership capabilities and time management skills TECHNICAL SKILLS: Database: MS SQL Server 2012/2008, Microsoft Access, Oracle 11g/10g/9i, DB2 Languages: C, Java, SQL, PL/SQL ETL Tools: Informatica, TOAD, ERWIN Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, XML, Java, ASP.Net, web services (SOAP, REST) Testing Tools: HP Quality Center (QC), HPALM, Load Runner, Rational Clear Quest Documentation Tools: MS Office Suite, SharePoint 2010/2013, IBM DOORS Project Management Tools: MS Project professional, CA Rally, JIRA, SharePoint, Enterprise Architecture Business Processing Modeling Tools: MS Visio, Mockup Screens, Rational Rose Methodologies: Waterfall, V-Model, Agile-Scrum, RUP. Data Modeling: Data Marts, OLAP, Query/Reporting, Multidimensional Analysis, Star/Snowflake Business Intelligence Tools: SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Tableau, Crystal Reports. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, Bloomington, IL Business Systems Analyst /Scrum Master Responsibilities: Elicited requirements from the stakeholders and analyzed them for consistency, flexibility and completeness. Interacted with SME’s, asking detailed questions and carefully recording the requirements in a format that can be reviewed and understood by both business people and technical people. Developed a vision plan that defined the primary goals and objectives of the project. Conducted GAP analysis to derive requirements for existing systems enhancements. Participated actively in assembling the JAD team and in conducting the weekly sessions from requirements gathering phase to the sign-off the application after testing. Used software development methodologies including RUP and Agile (Scrum). Developed use case documentation for system requirements, business process flows, and screen mockups using MS Visio. Worked closely with the UI/front end design team to model the screens, which met user defined requirements and company standards. Responsible for identifying and documenting business rules and creating detailed diagrams per RUP. Created Use Cases, Use Case diagrams, Business Flow diagram, Creating process models, Data flow diagrams. Facilitated User Acceptance Testing, developing and maintaining quality procedures, and ensuring that appropriate documentation is in place. Responsible for all project documentations and end user materials. Assisted the project manager to construct a project plan which includes project schedules, milestone tracking, and meeting minutes using MS Project. Studied and analyzed competitor’s applications and brainstormed to gather effective requirements for a better quality in the product. Used Rational Clear Quest to track defects, while prioritizing them for enhancements after base lining the requirements. Documented Manual Testing and kept track of defects found during the testing phase. Participated in weekly review meetings to report the documented test metrics and defects found in the System. Used Rational Rose and MS Visio to carry out business modeling of the business process. Verified business scenarios on new builds to allow extended testing by the QA team and helped the testing team to expedite User Acceptance and Regression testing to meet the production date. Resolved issues between front-end developers, middle-tier developers, QA team, and provided suggestions/feedback. Environment: Visual Studio.NET, ASP.NET, SQL, Windows, MS Visio, MS Project, MS Office Suite (MS Word, MS Excel, PowerPoint). CA rally, XML, HTML. Confidential, San Antonio, TX IT Business Analyst Responsibilities: Worked with the business community to define business requirements and analyze the possible technical solutions. Worked extensively with SMEs in understanding and documenting their requirements pertaining to Loan Origination, ARM, Escrow Analysis, Fannie Mae compliances, Loan Product types and many other business Areas. Co-authored business requirements document with project teams. Extract, discuss, and refine business requirements from business users and team members. Conducted workflow, process diagram and gap analysis to derive requirements for existing systems enhancements. Designed and developed Use Case Diagrams, Activity Flow Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams and web page mock-ups using Microsoft Visio. Facilitated and managed meeting sessions with committee of SMEs from various business areas including Mortgage Servicing, Loan Monitoring. Developed and implemented processes and tools for requirements gathering, analysis, planning, tracking and delivery. Analyzed user problems, including automated and manual business processes and identified, researched, investigated, defined and documented business processes Designed and developed project related Artifacts based on Tailored Agile- Scrum SDLC methodology. Involved in various scrum ceremonies including Product Backlog grooming, Daily standup meetings, Sprint review Meetings, Sprint Planning meeting, Sprint Retrospective meetings. Worked with the Business community and Tech Lead in gathering their requirements and data transaction information related to OLTP, SOA, API Web Services using SOAP. Using detailed knowledge of application features and functions, assessed scope and impact of business needs throughout analysis and completion of all enhancement specifications. Collaborated with the QA team to ensure adequate testing of software both before and after completion, maintained quality procedures, and ensured that appropriate documentation is in place. Conducted and facilitated UAT (User Acceptance Testing). Environment: XML, HTML, SOA, JAVA Web technology, Oracle Database, Web services, MS Project, MS Visio, MS Office Suite (Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Outlook), HP ALM, WebEx, Share Point, Version1. Confidential, GA Business Intelligence Analyst Responsibilities: Performed process analysis and data analysis to understand the AS IS flow of the existing project requirements. Gathered and analyzed business requirements from various department through interviews, JAD sessions and interacting with users, management and SME’s. Created and reviewed various project artifacts like BRD, FRD, Use Case, Test Scripts. Used MS project for project management activities and create project plans and project schedules Designed and developed Use Cases and Process flow diagrams using MS Visio Involved in application development scenario meetings with data analysts, client representatives, marketing, and other IT analysts. Developed functional and technical design specifications by using the business process and data modeling techniques. Involved in building the Business model, data models and established data mapping relationships & Foreign Keys (Physical & Logical) between tables. Analyzed and Designed the Data Mart model using Star Schema model with Facts and Dimension Tables. Developed Reports /Dashboardswith different Analytics Views (Drill-Down / Dynamic, Cascading Style Sheets, Pivot Table, Chart, Column Selector, Tabular with global and local Filters). Analyzed, Validated consumer behavioral data and generated reports/ Dashboards for the enterprise organization. Performed ETL operations for Business Intelligence reporting solutions, specified the standards for universes, classes, and complex objects in sync with the financial business rules. Actively involved with developers, integrators and quality analysts in performing Unit, Integration, and Regression testing to validate report and mapping functionality. Prepared Documentation for Repositories and Dashboards designs, test results and standard operating procedures (SOP). Environment: Erwin, Rational Tool Suite, MS SQL Server 2005, MS SharePoint, MS Visio, Windows Server 2000, MS Excel, Testing, Windows XP, 7 Environment, Tableau. Confidential  Product Business Analyst Responsibilities: Served as a liaison between the business team and the project technical team by assisting the business in identifying, understanding, and documenting their business needs. Assisted Product Ownership in managing customers showing deep expertise in inbound product management by defining the product vision and roadmap. Captured and Analyzed the current ("as is") and proposed ("to be") state of customer needs. Involved in Analyzing requirements, design, review, implementation, testing, and release of Trip optimizer sub system modules for various clients. Collaborated with UX, Architecture and Engineering Teams in Design Decisions demonstrating deep understanding of technology stack. Closely interacted with designers and software developers to understand application functionality, navigational flow and updated them about end-user requirements. Understanding the security and compliance requirements; establishing seamless integration with Cyber Security and Compliance teams. Demonstrated superior persuasion and influencing skills that ensure alignment between customer, product ownership and engineering team Established close partnership with Quality Engineering and Devops teams to ensure successful project releases. Mentored junior team members and provides oversight when working with other Analysts on a large project. Environment: Windows XP, MS Office Suite (Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Outlook), MS Project, Visio, UML, MATLAB, PUTTY, LABVIEW, XML, HTTP, IBM DOORS, Inhouse built hardware systems. Confidential  Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted interviews with the clients for gathering requirements and evaluation/analysis of their data. Converted the business requirements into IT specifications. Process lead role for SAP Order to Cash module related to all sales and ordering methodologies like single orders and scheduling agreements. Performed the requirement analysis and documented the requirements. Gathering and documenting the requirements that are critical to the business mission and using those requirements to design application software using a Use Case. Created Use Cases, Workflows, and Screen Shots for the Application Developed the business and functional requirement specification describing and prioritizing of the requirements. Identified and documented issues, risk and gaps, their descriptions, their impact and provided recommendation and alternatives to develop the application to meet the user requirements Developed Project Status metrics for weekly evaluation of Project Status and impact of the Change Request on the Time line. Conducted Sessions to develop an architectural solution that the application meets the business requirements, resolve open issues, and change requests. Performed feasibility, adaptability study and risk analysis to identify the business-critical areas from USER perspective. Environment: MS Project, Visio, UML, SAP MM, Windows XP, MS Office Suite (Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Outlook), IBM Doors. 