SUMMARY: Healthcare professional with over 7.3 years on Manual, Automation testing & a certified American Health Management, Healthcare - Level 0 professional with an understanding on fundamental architecture of the Health Care industry in the US. Experience in Banking and Finance sector for a year, dealt with GUI Testing for American Express Home page with tools such as JAWS, Windows EYES, and partly mainframes testing on CICS application for JPMC- Chase Card Core. Experience in handling small sized team, analyzing and projecting the estimates and efforts of the deliverables Expertise in Manual Testing and testing concepts and experienced working with Waterfall Model, V Model, Agile-scrum methodologies. Experienced in Automation Testing with Open Source tools; Selenium RC and WebDriver. Proficient in Functionality Testing, Regression Testing and System testing. Experienced in SDLC, STLC and Agile-Scrum Methodology. As a single POC for a Module, I have taken up the responsibility of understanding the requirements from the client and building up the test scenarios from the manuals on a release basis, assigning the tasks to the team members and sending the daily status reports. Experienced in Requirement Analysis. Analyze the requirements right from the inception and with a Requirement Traceability Matrix designed, prepare a robust test design strategy. Experienced in preparing Test Plan, Test Strategy and Test closure reports. Experience in Test Case Design, Test Case Execution and Defect Tracking. Well versed in Healthcare processes such as Members Enrollment and Maintenance, Providers Enrollments, Approval and Maintenance and Claims Adjudication Life cycle dealing with complex modules such as Claims Pricing. Experienced in Client interaction. I have been the only QA resource responsible for taking up the project; OASIS, working closely with the client in coordinating it from the Design phase until the Closure, with 16 production defects in a fixed delivery completion time. Good managing and reporting skills, task allocation to resources and tracking the progress on daily & weekly basis. Managing project stakeholders by constantly communicating project goals, timelines, advice and expert input, reviews of material to increase quality, forecasting project challenges, support required to achieve the results & the frequency needed for communication. Excellent in Planning and meeting project schedules under stringent timelines and high pressure. Excellent in adopting Best Practices and Continuous Process improvements. Have good communication, analytical, organizing & decision making skill, with the ability to work within teams & a high level of self-motivation in performing all my responsibilities. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Operating System:  Windows 98/2000/2007/ XP/7 Languages:  C, SQL, Java Database:  Oracle SQL Developer Testing Management Tools:  HP Quality Center 9.2, Clear Quest, and Rally Defect Management Tools:  Bugzilla, Jira, Quality Center Testing Automation Tools:  Selenium IDE & RC, Selenium WebDriver, Eclipse Debugging Tools:  Firebug, FireFinder, Windows Eyes PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, West Sacramento, CA Team Member Responsibilities: Leading a team of 3 resources in assigning tasks and tracking the estimation and efforts of the deliverables. Executing test cases in RQM and raising defects in Clear Quest. Preparing test status reports on daily and weekly basis. Conducted Knowledge transfer sessions on Claim Processing for teams across many Locations. Facilitate knowledge sharing sessions within and across teams. Keeping track of Defects and closing the defects once they are resolved. Participating in daily status calls, interacting directly with the client and updating the status to the team. Reviewing the work which team members does and explains them in understanding the process. Being a Core Claims Expert contributed in acquiring new module for Functional and Automation Testing Teams With a commendable knowledge on adjudication flow, bridging the requirements and the gaps in the test scenarios to build a robust test suite funding to critical defect finds. Have been the automation resource for the project, responsible for developing scripts, suites for different Smoke and Iterative Regression Testing (High level) scenarios. Environment: Java, Java - Web Application, Clear Quest, Oracle 10G, RQM, Version One, Eclipse, Selenium Web Driver. Confidential  Team Member/Defect Prevention Co-ordinator Responsibilities: Creation and Execution of Test cases using Selenium IDE & RC. Executing test cases and raising defects in Clear Quest. Preparing test status reports on daily and weekly basis. Taken up the responsibility as SCM Coordinator and Defect Prevention Coordinator for Process and Quality Assurance. Calculating the Defect Age in a weekly basis and sending it to the Management. Conducted Knowledge transfer sessions on Claim Processing for teams across many Locations. Facilitate knowledge sharing sessions within and across teams. Keeping track of Defects and closing the defects once they are resolved. Participating in daily status calls, interacting directly with the client and updating the status to the team. Reviewing the work which team members do and explain them in understanding the process. Being a part of an initiative as Claims Core Team lead have contributed in increasing the adjudication rate by analysing the risks and mitigation on claims. Reducing the Claims Suspend backlog of 160K real time (production) claims to 20K Claims by performing NPI analysis, Reverse engineering, demarking of edits by distinguishing the correct or incorrectly triggers as per the business rules. Environment: Java - Web Application, Clear Quest, Oracle 10G, Requisite Pro, Bugzilla, EclipseSelenium IDE & RC. Confidential  Team Member Responsibilities: Understanding the business process flow and analyzing the requirements and writing test cases in QC Execute test cases and log defects in CQ. Learnt the functionality of the claims and developed expertise in this module. Delivered Sessions on Medicaid and Claim functionality across different locations in India. Claim Submission through EDI using Third Party tools. Review of tasks which are done by the team Preparing status report on daily basis. Prepared KT documents on all modules. Involved in Defect Triage calls. Found a critical gap in one of the Claims Pricing logics which implemented in the production helped in avoiding inappropriate pricing of claims and brought high credibility for the pilot team and client confidence. Environment: Java - Web Application, Clear Quest, Oracle 10G, WINASAP tool, Requisite Pro, Bugzilla. Confidential  Team Member Responsibilities: Worked under Agile-Scrum Methodology Analyze, understand the user stories & design test cases and test scripts in Rally & Quality Center. Execute test cases manually and executing them in Quality Center. Taken up the responsibility as Defect Prevention Coordinator for Process and Quality Assurance. Log defects in Quality Center. Retest & Regression test Involved in daily Scrum call and sprint retrospective meetings Report directly to the client (Scrum master) on daily basis Handled a project OASIS individually, coordinating with Onsite counter-part and managed to find maximum production defects in 30 days of stipulated delivery completion period. Environment: Java, RQM, Test Director, SQL server2008 Confidential  Team Member Responsibilities: Analyze, Understand the requirements & design test cases Test scripts and test data creation Import Test cases in to Quality Center and execute Test cases Capture the test results and create logs. Log the defects in Quality Center. Environment: Mainframes, Quality Center Confidential  Team Member Responsibilities: Prepared Test Plan document. Analyze, Understand the requirements & design test cases Test scripts and test data creation Execute test cases Browser Compatibility for the environment. Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) will be created against the business requirements Capture the test results Log the defects in Quality Center Prepared status reports on daily basis Retest & Regression testing Environment: Java 