PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY: 9 years of IT experience in Healthcare, Financial and Banking industries. 6years of Project/Process Management and Project coordination experience in various complex and business critical projects. PMP certified professional. 4 years of experience in Agile methodology. Recently cleared Professional Scrum Master . Managed several aspects of project execution - Scope, Budget, Schedule, Resource, Risk, Issue, Change, Communication and Quality management. Excellent communication skills with the ability to communicate across all levels of the organization from project developers to senior leadership in both IT and Business. Comprehensive understanding of software development life cycle including requirements gathering, design, development, testing and maintenance. Demonstrated ability to work actively in different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile methodologies (SCRUM). Extensive experience leading highly cross-functional matrix teams in a dynamic and global onsite-offshore environment. Coordination with Business analysts and the Business teams in gathering the requirements. Managed stakeholders, acted as a liaison between Business sponsors, Project Management Office (PMO) and the project team to ensure that all parties understand and sign-off on the objectives. Experienced in gathering user requirements, analyzing and preparing Project Deliverables such as GAP analysis (AS-IS & TO-BE scenario), Project Charter, Business Requirement Document (BRD) and Functional Requirement Document (FRD) and proposed changes for process improvement. Knowledge ofIT Service Management (ITSM) based on ITIL best practices. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Databases: Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g, Oracle Forms. Programming and Scripting Languages: UNIX Shell Scripting (ksh, bash), Perl. Operating Systems: Windows 9X/2000/XP/7, UNIX (Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, AIX). Applications: MS Word, MS Excel, MS Access, MS Visio, MS PowerPoint and MS Project. Tools: Clear Case, Clear Quest, SVN, Quickbase, Remedy Action Request, Toad, SharePoint, Crystal reports SQLDeveloperand Lotus Notes. Methodologies: SDLC and Agile WORK EXPERIENCE: Project Manager Confidential  Responsibilities: Streamlining the Service Request Intake process by working closely with Kaiser’s IT leaders. Plan Service request implementations through effective prioritization with business partners. Develop and communicate plans/ objectives to team members. Set project timeframes and priorities based on project objectives and ongoing assignments. Project Manager/Scrum Master Confidential, Hartford, CT Responsibilities: Responsible for all aspects of development/implementation of highly complex healthcare projects usingAgile Scrummethodology. Manage geographically distributed teams, off-shore development teams and third-party vendors. Develop/monitor project’s scope, schedule and budget. Createprojectplans and follow company standards to manage the entire projectlifecycle. Facilitate Sprint Planning, Release Planning, Daily Stand-Ups, Sprint reviews/demosand Sprint Retrospectives. Support Product Owner in developing, maintaining and grooming Product Backlog. Remove impediments/blockers to maintain highly productive teams.Identify and manage dependencies/risks/issues with other internal or external teams. Provideburn up metrics and project status to senior management. Mentor team members on Agile/Scrumbest practices. Model compliance with company policies and procedures and support company mission, values, and standards of ethics and integrity. Communicateprojectobjectives to the team, and provide direction and guidance Work with Release Management team during implementation plan reviews and implementation. Work with business teams in production validation Project Manager Confidential, Hartford, CT Responsibilities: Managed project implementation involving requirement planning/analysis, risk management, scheduling and budget tracking. Worked closely with internal and external project stakeholders to gather project specific requirements by acting as a liaison between the business and technical teams. Conduct co-ordination meeting with teams for each phase to define goals and schedule. Involved in effort estimation review for activities throughout the phases of a project. Prepared change management artifacts by working closely with business stakeholders to prioritize and address critical problems. Procured resources and secured funds required for change implementation.Presented the changes to change control board to ensure smooth approvals. Coordinated with Enterprise release management to ensure that all aspects of the release are considered, planned and prepared for the release to minimize or mitigate risks. Worked with Confidential ’s Senior Program Manager in a systems integration project to provide PMO support for Confidential ’s acquisition of Active Health.Analyzed the SDLC processes of Active Health and provided recommendations to align itself closer to Confidential ’s SDLC. Project Manager/Scrum Master Confidential, Hartford, CT Responsibilities: End-End Project Management. Project Kick Off, User story sessions. Engage all the impacted teams, Cost Estimation, Budgeting & Forecasting. Project Planning, Schedule development and Execution. Change/Risk/Issue Management. Client communication, Status meetings, Status Reporting. Project installation, Project closure & Project end discussion. Manage Projects in Plainview. Environment: Windows 7, MS Office Tools - MS Word, MS Excel, MS Visio, MS PowerPoint, MS Project, Sharepoint, Planview, Clearcase, Clearquest, Quickbase, RTC. Confidential, Southborough, MA Responsibilities: Involved in system analysis and in the preparation of Software Requirements Specification document to satisfy HIPAA regulations for the Claims System. Extensively involved in implementation of effective requirements practices, including gathering User Requirements, and analyzing User Requirement Document (URD), and functional specification document (FSD), and continuous improvement of requirement gathering processes. Assist Project Managers in creating Project Plans. Maintained project schedule and cost using MS project. Facilitated JAD sessions to identify the business flows and determine whether any current or proposed systems are impacted. Involved in GAP analysis, mapping, implementation, and testing for processing of Medicaid Claims. Assisted team lead in developing Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) to trace the relationship between business and functional requirements to test cases. Involved in conducting Functionality testing, Integration testing, Regression testing and User Acceptance testing (UAT). Provided analysis and insight to QA Team in defects and bugs tracking. Environment: Windows XP, UML, MS Office Tools - MS Word, MS Excel, MS Visio, MS PowerPoint, MS Project, Oracle, SQL Navigator. Confidential, Worcester, MA Jr. PM/BA Responsibilities: Update project plan estimates, dates, resources, and milestones with information from senior management and other project team members. Perform weekly update of the key project artifacts (project schedule/timeline, status report). Maintain artifacts related to change management log, issues list, and risk list Assist in regular evaluation of workflow and data flow processes and in making improvements Coordinate the gathering of pertinent project documentation, including pre-implementation and post-implementation audit documents and application support transition Coordinate the fulfillment of pre-implementation and post-implementation recommendations from internal and external audit teams to ensure project compliance Review project expenses against project budget to identify and remedy any non-approved charges Capture, communicate and follow up on meeting Action Items / review overdue actions or issues and contact team members to update Schedule/facilitate meetings and events as required. Interacted with business users to understand business reporting needs and translate them into IT requirements (report mock-ups). Conducted JAD sessions with business units and stakeholders to define project scope, to identify the business flows and determine whether any current or proposed systems are impacted by the new development efforts. Conducted detailed and comprehensive business analysis by constantly working with the Business Users, Solution Engineers, Developers and Testers, Management, Deployment and Support Staff in order to determine High Level and Low Level artifacts & deliverables to be produced and design the application that will support the business and meet the constraints of time, resources and budget. Acted as liaison between development team, testing team and Business SMEs to generate and standardize Functional requirements specification documents, Use cases, Vendor Specification documents and Architectural documents. Converted Business requirements into Functional requirements so that designers and developers can understand. Environment: Windows XP, CMMI, UML, MS Office Tools - MS Word, MS Excel, MS Visio, MS PowerPoint, Oracle. Confidential, Poughkeepsie, NY  Project coordinator/BA Responsibilities: Coordinated project activities to ensure projects are completed on time and exceeding expectations. Used MS Project to maintain Effort and schedule of the project. Modelled AS IS and TO BE processes using MS Visio. Used Rational Suite (Clear Case, Clear Quest) for Version control and Defect Tracking. Designed and documented Use Case Documents, Functional Requirement Documents for performance monitoring tools. Utilized Agile/ SCRUM and PMI methodologies to monitor, steer and develop project objectives. Created relationships in Requirement Traceability Matrix linking Business Requirements to Functional requirements and Functional Requirements to Systems Requirements. Gathered requirements for performance monitoring tools like Ganglia and Performance copilot. Gained excellent exposure to all phases of the Software Development Lifecycle. Environment: Windows XP, MS Office Tools - MS Word, MS Excel, MS Visio, MS PowerPoint, Clearcase, Clearquest, Lotus Notes. Jr. Business Analyst Confidential  Responsibilities: Involved in business analysis and drafted the Functional & Technical Specification documents of the Single Customer Identifier (SCI) banking application. Finalized requirements for several change requests in the SCI application. Served as a liaison between the technical team and the SCI business team in resolving issues. Worked with consultants to obtain effort estimates and business impact analysis documents. Developed user documentation for the new/updated system. Interacted extensively with the internal and external customers during releases to ensure smooth deployments. Ensured that the project follows all the required processes of the organization and maintained the project metrics. Provided end user for the new/changed system. Generated back end reports using Oracle queries when requested by business team using Toad. Analyzed a process that was taking 8 hours and successfully launched a process improvement initiative that reduced the turnaround time to just 10 minutes. The new process was implemented using Unix Shell Scripts and Oracle queries. Member of the project team which finished as the runners up for the ODD (Zero Defect Delivery) . Environment: Windows XP, MS Office Tools - MS Word, MS Excel, MS Visio, MS PowerPoint, Oracle, Clearcase, Remedy, Oracle, Toad. 