SUMMARY Over fourteen Years of Software Development experience in industries like Investment Banking, Wealth Management, Retail Banking and Mortgage industry, Insurance, Telecommunication, Hospitality and Energy. Technical expertise in Microsoft Technologies like .Net Framework 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, C#5.0/4.0/3.0/2.0, ADO.NET, LINQ, ASP .NET, MVC .NET, Javascript, Jquery, AngularJS, JSON, IIS, Win Forms, Web Services, WCF, WPF, XML, Microsoft SQL Server and MS Team Foundation Server. Background in almost all facets of software development encompassing requirement gathering, requirement analysis, providing business solution, creating high level architecture, design, development, implementation, testing, maintenance, production support and execution of business applications. Senior developer, Technical Lead, Technical Architect who has successfully architected, designed and developed enterprise level mission critical software Experience in Agile software development methodology and Test driven development including SCRUM Methodologies and involved in application design based on various design patterns that includes but not limited to MVC, Abstract Factory, Strategy pattern, Observer pattern, Singleton design Patterns. Very well acquainted with the concepts like inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction and encapsulation, have used them wherever Object Oriented Programming System (OOPS) is needed Experienced in creating rich and dynamic user interface on the web using HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, Jquery, JSON, XML, XAML Ajax and AngularJS. Experience in cross browser/cross Platform compatibility and Web application scalling Strong experience in design of web - based applications using ASP.NET, MVC .NET, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, AngularJS, JSON, Master Pages, Web Services and Server Controls. Expertise in building highly distributed applications using WCF, .NET Remoting, MSMQ and Web Services using WSDL, UDDI, SOAP and consuming/publishing web services Experienced in using XML technologies like XSD, XSLT, XQUERY and XPATH Navigator. Developed Data Access Layer (DAL) using ADO .NET & LINQ. Extensive experience in Multithreading applications that involves simultaneous processing of various source system and synchronize the results into single output. Expertise in building multi-tiered applications that include Business Layer (BAL), Data access layer, User Interface layer. Expertise in implementing SOA using WCF technology, developed and consumed WCF services with features versioning, security, optimization and reliability Experience in building REST services using WCF Working knowledge of Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) which provides developers with a unified programming model for building rich windows smart client user experiences that incorporate UI, media and Documents. Created Entity classes, relationships between entity classes using LINQ (Language Integrated Query) to SQL to manage relational data as objects with Entity Framework 4.0. Working experience in data modeling, Entity Relationship diagram, OOD, SOA, REST, UML Extensive experience in implementing tables, views, stored procedures, functions, and triggers using T-SQL. Extensive knowledge of writing complex queries using SQL Server 2008/2005. Extensive experience in development and optimizing of Queries using SQL Query Analyzer, Stored Procedures and Triggers. Prepared Technical design document, Use cases, Test cases and User manuals, UMLs. Extensive experience in Bug fixing, Code reviews, and Unit testing. Experience with unit testing frameworks like N-Unit & Microsoft Test. Strong experience in using configuration management, building schedule using TFS, SVN and VSS. Having excellent analytical, problem solving, communication skills and a quick learner. Proven leader with experience as an architect, technical lead, team lead, mentor and manager. TECHNICAL SKILLS .NET Framework: .NET Framework 1.1, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0 .NET Programming Languages: C#, VB .NET, C++ .NET Data Access: ADO .NET, LINQ, Entity Framework .NET Distributed Applications: WCF, Web Services, Web API, .NET Remoting, XML, COM/DCOM, MAPI Web Development: ASP .NET, MVC .NET, JavaScript, Jquery, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON, IIS Other .NET Technologies: NUnit, WWF, Windows Forms RDBMS: SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, Oracle, Sybase, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL Other Languages: VB Script, ASP, Pro C, Pro C++, Managed C++, Shell Script, Pearl Script Design, Architecture: MVC, SOA, REST Architecture, Microservices, OOD, UML, Data Modelling, Entity Relationship Diagrams, Design Patterns, Enterprise Architecture, Distributed Systems Version Control: VSS, TFS, MKS, SVN Processes: Waterfall Model, Iterative Model, Agile Using Scrum Framework, Test Driven Development Tools Used: VS .NET 2003/2005/2008/2010/2012, MS Visio PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, NYC  Technical Architect/ Technical Lead Responsibilities: My current responsibilities include gathering requirements from risk managers, analyze the requirements and provide business and technical solutions to meet the goals. Lead a small team of developers, work with team members, and provide them with technical help and application knowledge as and when needed. Take the responsibility of delivering a project in a timely manner meeting all the business and technical requirements. Involved in Creating design and architecture. Developed Application using .NET Framework 4.0, Object Oriented Principles (OOP), and n-Tier Architecture Extensively worked in core .NET, multi-threading, Task Parallel Library, ADO .NET, LINQ, WCF, SQL Server, Stored procedure, User Defined functions, TSQL for implementing Business logic and Data Layer using .NET Framework 4.0 Involved in data modeling UML Diagrams (Entity Relationship diagram, Use Case Diagrams, Dataflow diagrams, Class diagrams) using Microsoft Visio. Developed the web based Application using MVC .Net, JSON and AngularJS to provide status of daily EOD jobs to the end Users. I worked on this application alone. I designed and codded the entire application which is extremely heavy on UI side with a lot of front end features developed in AngularJS. Developed highly dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS, Jquery, Angular JS, JSON Did a lot of server side coding using MVC .NET, Razor engine, C# Created Inbound and outbound WCF services to interface with external systems to ensure external system data can be used for risk calculation and we can open our risk data for external systems Wrote Data Access Layer Methods, T-SQL Queries, Store Procedures, User Defined Functions and Triggers for fetching position and securities level data. Used SVN for the purpose of version Control and source code maintenance needs. Involved in Unit testing, Modular testing, Integration testing and successful integration of modules and multiple layers in the system. Used Microsoft Test Manager in Visual Studio for running Action recorded Test Cases and Regression Tests. Environment: .NET Framework 4.0 using C#, Web service, WCF, ADO .NET, SVN, NUnits, Multithreading, Task Parallel Library, ASP .NET, Javascript, HTML, AngularJS, JSON, SQL Server 2012, TSQL, Stored Procedure, SQL UDF, VS .NET 2012, Microsoft Visio (UML), IIS, N-UNIT, n-tier architecture Confidential Technical Architect/ Technical Lead Responsibilities: Gathering requirements from wealth managers, stake holders, END Users, analyze the requirements and provide business and technical solutions to meet the goals. Translate the requirements into Use cases, Data models and Dataflow diagrams with the help of Business analyst. Build the fundamental Architecture for accomplishing the requirements. Lead a small team of developers, work with team members, and provide them with technical help as and when needed. Take the responsibility of delivering a project in a timely manner meeting all the business and technical requirements. Work with the team to create the fundamental design for various units. Developed Application using .NET Framework 4.0, Object Oriented Principles (OOP), and n-Tier Architecture Extensively worked in core MVC .NET, ASP .NET, Javascript, AJAX, AngularJS, JSON, ADO .NET, LINQ, WCF, SQL Server, Stored procedure, User Defined functions, TSQL for implementing Business logic and Data Layer and design the User interface using .NET Framework 4.0 Created highly dynamic and browser independent pages using HTML5, CSS, JQuery, AngularJS, JSON Created a single REST based service to cater to all web and portals applications to access critical business related data. We used agile methodology using SCRUM framework. Wrote Data Access Layer Methods, T-SQL Queries, Store Procedures, User Defined Functions and Triggers for fetching position and securities level data. Used TFS for the purpose of version Control and source code maintenance needs. Involved in Unit testing, Modular testing, Integration testing and successful integration of modules and multiple layers in the system. Used Microsoft Test Manager in Visual Studio for running Action recorded Test Cases and Regression Tests. Environment: .NET Framework 4.0 using C#, MVC .NET, ASP .NET, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS, JSON, HTML, Web service, WCF, ADO .NET, LINQ, TFS, NUnits, SQL Server 2012, TSQL, Stored Procedure, SQL UDF, VS .NET 2012, Microsoft Visio (UML), IIS, N-UNIT, n-tier architecture. Confidential Senior .Net Developer / Technical Lead Responsibilities: Gathering requirements from wealth managers, stake holders, END Users, analyze the requirements and provide business and technical solutions to meet the goals. Translate the requirements into Use cases, Data models and Dataflow diagrams with the help of Business analyst. Build the fundamental Architecture for accomplishing the requirements. Lead a small team of developers, work with team members, and provide them with technical help as and when needed. Take the responsibility of delivering a project in a timely manner meeting all the business and technical requirements. Work with the team to create the fundamental design for various units. Developed Application using .NET Framework 4.0, Object Oriented Principles (OOP), and n-Tier Architecture Extensively worked in core MVC .NET, ASP .NET, Javascript, AJAX, AngularJS, JSON, ADO .NET, LINQ, WCF, SQL Server, Stored procedure, User Defined functions, TSQL for implementing Business logic and Data Layer and design the User interface using .NET Framework 4.0 . We used agile methodology using SCRUM framework. Wrote Data Access Layer Methods, T-SQL Queries, Store Procedures, User Defined Functions and Triggers for fetching position and securities level data. Used TFS for the purpose of version Control and source code maintenance needs. Involved in Unit testing, System Testing and Bug fixing Doing Code review and setting up coding standard. Environment: C#, ASP.Net 3.5, MVC .NET 3.0, ADO.NET, WCF, LINQ, WWF, Entity Framework, XML, UML, SQL Server 2008, SOA, N-unit testing, Visual Studio 2010, Win2003 Confidential  Senior Developer Responsibilities: Gathering requirements from wealth managers, stake holders, END Users, analyze the requirements and provide business and technical solutions to meet the goals. Translate the requirements into Use cases, Data models and Dataflow diagrams with the help of Business analyst. Build the fundamental Architecture for accomplishing the requirements. Lead a small team of developers, work with team members, and provide them with technical help as and when needed. Take the responsibility of delivering a project in a timely manner meeting all the business and technical requirements. Work with the team to create the fundamental design for various units. Developed Application using .NET Framework 4.0, Object Oriented Principles (OOP), and n-Tier Architecture Extensively worked in Multithreading, ASP .NET, Javascript, AJAX, ADO .NET, WCF, SQL Server, Stored procedure, User Defined functions, TSQL for implementing Business logic and Data Layer and design the User interface using .NET Framework 4.0 We used agile methodology using SCRUM framework. Wrote Data Access Layer Methods, T-SQL Queries, Store Procedures, User Defined Functions and Triggers for fetching position and securities level data. Used MKS for the purpose of version Control and source code maintenance needs. Involved in Unit testing, System Testing and Bug fixing Doing Code review and setting up coding standard. Environment: C#, ASP.Net 3.5, ADO.NET, WCF, Web Services, XML, UML, SQL Server 2005, SOA, N-unit testing, Visual Studio 2005, Win2003, Web Farm, Load Balancing Confidential Technical Lead Responsibilities: Confidential originally called harbour electronics is into electronic chip designing business. QGMF is a web based application that automates the entire process of getting the requirements from the clients to calculate the final quote. Requirement Analysis Technical Design Development Unit testing the functionality implemented by me Managing a small team of 4 people Environment: C#, ASP.Net, ADO.NET, WCF, Web Services, XML, UML, SQL Server 2005, SOA, N-unit testing, Visual Studio 2005, Win2003 Confidential  Senior Developer Responsibilities: Newmarket International is a privately held company based in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. It is in hospitality business. Meeting Broker is a web based application that allows the end users of new market international to create RFP and book properties/hotels for events. Requirement Analysis Technical Design Development Unit testing the functionality implemented by me Managing a small team of 4 people Environment: C#, ASP.Net, ADO.NET, WCF, Web Services, XML, UML, SQL Server 2005, SOA, N-unit testing, Visual Studio 2005, Win2003 