SUMMARY Around Ten years of working experience in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (Requirement gathering and analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, Deployment, and Maintenance). Expertise in working under Agile/Scrum Methodology. Full - stack.Net Developer, with proven track record of implementing enterprise wide software development projects. A Professional with extensive experience and insight of business, technology and the knowhow of implementation processes which combine technology and business to enhance the vision of the organization. Sound management and communication skills to handle multiple projects at intra organization and inter organization levels. Hands on experience (full SDLC) with.Net Framework 1.1/2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5/4.6 Work Flows, Web Services, C#, VB 6.0, VB.Net, ASP.Net, MVC 4/5 and ADO.Net. Proven ability to lead, mange project resources, interact with clients, coordinate and work in achieving high levels of productivity and efficiency in complex, dynamic and challenging environments. Designing, coding, testing, documenting, and deploying global applications based on system and user requirements and expert knowledge in analyzing, designing, and developing solutions to highly complex problems. Excellent knowledge in Object Oriented analysis and design (OOAD), Agile Development Methodology, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), and Entity Framework 4.5. Experience with developing e-commerce applications. Extensive experience with HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, XML Schema. Experience working with Visio, Rational Rose, Rational Clear Case, Visual SourceSafe and Team Foundation Server. Experience working with advanced.Net features like AJAX, WCF, WPF, and LINQ. Extensive experience in designing and developing n-tier applications. Extensive experience with MS SQL Server 2000/20 /2014 , T-SQL, SSRS, SSIS. Proficient in writing stored procedures, Functions, Cursors, Packages, and Database Triggers using SQL Server / / 2014. Experience in generating reports using Crystal Reports and SSRS. RDBMS Architecture, Model, Design & Development including SQL Server, T-SQL, and PL/SQL. Ability to implement ASP.Net forms, Win Forms, user and custom controls. Strong communication skills, including the ability to convey technical information effectively to both IT and business audiences. Results oriented and delivers solutions within budget. TECHNICAL SKILLS Microsoft.Net Technologies: Microsoft.Net Web Services, WCF, WPF, Windows Work Flow, MVC 4/5. Web Development: AJAX, HTML, ASP.Net, CSS, XML, XSL, WSDL. Development Tools: Visual Studio 2008/2010/2012/2013/2015. Web Servers: IIS 5.1/IIS 6/ IIS 7/IIS 7.5/IIS 10. Languages: C++, C#, VB 6.0, VB.Net, VBScript, JavaScript, XML/XSL, T-SQL, PL-SQL, PHP, VBA. Databases: SQL Server 2000/20 /2014 , MS Access, MySQL. Source Control: Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual Source Safe 6.0, Clear Case, Clear Quest. Operating Systems: Windows XP/2000/NT/2005. SQL Server Tools: Enterprise Manager, SQL Profiler, Query Analyzer, SSMS, SSIS, DTS, SSRS, SSAS, BIDS. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Chicago, IL Senior Software Developer  Responsibilities: Analyze, design and develop software applications/interfaces using C# ASP.NET 4.5/4.6. Perform full SDLC & communicate in written and verbal form with business regarding requirements. Work in Services Oriented Architectures and in n-Tiered environments. Study existing business processes and organizational procedures and transform them to software solutions using Restful/SOAP Services, WebAPI/WCF, XML/XSD, AJAX, JavaScript libraries, JQuery, HTML5/Bootstrap/AngularJS/NodeJS/CSS. Extensively work with SQL Server Management Studio writing and performance tuning stored procedure, views, and user defined functions. Responsible for developing and maintaining jobs using SSIS packages. Creating reports as per business requirements using SSRS. Develop web application using MVC 4.0/5.0 and Telerik controls (Telerik ASP.NET MVC Controls). Design, develop and document system testing and validation procedures. Prepare highly abstracted designs/approaches and visualize the same. Consult with clients on software system design and maintenance. Provide technical support to project teams, members and associates. Recommend software upgrades for existing systems and applications. Create flowcharts, layouts, diagrams using MS Visio and write program codes. Troubleshoot and debug existing software, analyze and summarize development and system issues. Evaluate analysis, requirements, issues, proposed and development solutions to determine feasibility of project. Review design specifications, standards, and program to prepare and install systems/solutions. Environment: C#, VB, Visual Studio 2013/2015, TFS 2015, RDBMS, XML, HTML, CSS, ASP.Net, MVC 4.0/5.0, WCF, Web Services, JavaScript/JQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS, SQL Server 2008/2012, Bootstrap, Telerik controls. Confidential, Chicago, IL Senior.Net Developer/Enterprise Automation Engineer  Responsibilities: Develop and enhance homegrown C#.Net based SRP (Service Request Portal) application as per user’s requirements and business need. Excessively worked on building new MVC based Web forms using routing, razor engine, and Action methods. Meet with users to elicit requirements, present/demo existing service request portal features, and help users understand the usability of portal. Produce and maintain XML and JavaScript-based workflows for in-house service catalog. Develop, update, and maintain SQL Stored Procedures, Views, and User Defined Functions as needed. Extensively work with JavaScript/jQuery/AngularJS to add front end features and validations to make Website more interactive and user friendly. Responsible for source code control using TFS 2015 and guide team members to add and maintain user stories and tasks. Provide TFS demo to the team as needed. Troubleshoot and fix coding issues, requests, and incidents as reported. Responsible for implementing monthly and quarterly code release/cutover/ upgrades to production environment and keep IT Automation team informed with the changes. Provide direct technical support in problem management, maintenance, integration, and systems programming for automated solution workflows. Created and consumed RESTful services and worked on parsing JSON data. Interact with a variety of APIs exposed by products like IT Service Manager, Microsoft System Center 2012, HP Operations Orchestrator, HP service anywhere, and ServiceNow and other vendors. Make adjustments as needed to current processes to improve reliability and stability with automated solutions. Maintain a strong focus on testing, coding standards, and code quality. Adhere to service, problem, and change management processes. Research and evaluate new technologies or APIs required for automated solutions. Coordinate activities with internal/external technology owners. Understand technical/business requirements gathered from the business units. Consult with other business units (e.g. application groups, DBAs, middleware, etc.) to build workflows to meet needs. Participates in code review process, posting scripts, and incorporating feedback from senior engineers on team. Provide technical support as needed in automation space. Environment: C#, Visual Studio 2015, TFS 2015/2017, RDBMS, PowerShell, XML, HTML, CSS, ASP.Net, WCF, Web Services, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, SQL Server 2008/2012, Mongo DB, Entity Framework 4.5, MS Office, MS Visio, Microsoft System Center 2012. Confidential, Indianapolis, IN Senior.Net Full Stack Developer Responsibilities: Working under fast paced Agile Software Development (Scrum) environment. Work closely with the global development team, senior Solution Architects, and executives within the IT group to plan ongoing feature development, and product maintenance. Coordinate and align work with the Enterprise Architects and the development team members through all phases of the SDLC. Analyzing business requirements, processes, data, and system integration points to determine / recommend appropriate technology solutions. Review and analyze requirements and provide technical feasibility and estimates. Responsible for developing Web based ISAM solution for users at Trial/Country/Site level using.Net Framework 4.5, C#.Net, and VB.Net. Develop and maintain complex SQL scripts, stored procedures, views, and UDF. Extensively working on Visual Studio 2012/2015, SQL Server 2012, WCF, and SQL profiler. Responsible for maintaining existing Web application and adding enhancements using AJAX, Telerik Control, JavaScript, and JQuery. Coordinate with onsite and offshore team members to resolve day-to-day issues and impediments. Extensively work on creating and consuming Web Services. Communicate with team and the client for the requirement changes/issues, business logic. Practice standard development process leveraging agile methodology. Create technical documents for software products using Visio, UML, PowerPoint and Office. Perform unit testing and troubleshoot applications. Develop the program logic for critical components of the application. Lead, implement and make a solid contribution to engineering practices and processes. Environment: Visual Studio 2012/2015, Windows Forms, C#.Net 4.0/4.5, SQL Server 2008/2012, Mongo DB, TFS, MS Office, MS Visio, Web API, MVC 4, WCF, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, REST, AJAX, JQuery, Web Services, Telerik controls. Confidential, Waukegan, IL .Net Full Stack Developer  Responsibilities: Work closely with users and senior stakeholders to understand the business and technical needs of our customer to develop software and system requirements. Identify, define and implement needed enhancements in the methods, standards and processes to better enable teams and constructive enterprise applications. Monitor and track existing system issues/bugs in DIET ticketing system and provide appropriate resolution by fixing or adding new functionalities. Evaluates software and or hardware products for acquisition, and meets with staff to discuss projects and resolve technical problems. Work with the development team members to align work on day-today basis and discuss various approaches to the existing issues. Responsible for designing and developing Web solution using C#, ASP.Net (MVC and Web Forms) in Visual Studio 2015 environment. Extensively using JavaScript, CSS, XML, AJAX, and WCF. Moving code into various environments and support implementation and post production activities. Design and maintain SQL Views, Stored Procedures and UDF in the SQL Server 2012. Responsible for monitoring and analyzing ETL jobs pulling data from source system into staging and then warehouse. Create and maintain enhancements and configuration change requests (CCRs) within the Defect, Issue, and Enhancement Tracking (DIET) system. Develop and execute Unit Test cases, scripts and plans in Quality Center. Facilitate testing activities within the team. Provide technical guidance for technical tasks of the offshore consultants. Explain complex design items through documents and white-board sessions. Evaluating and implementing enhancements and modifications to existing software. Investigates new technologies and techniques and researches ongoing industry developments. Ensuring all software developed complies with security and performance requirements. Building prototypes and ultimately working applications focused on the user experience. Environment: Visual Studio 2012/2015, C#, ASP.Net MVC 5.0, SQL Server 2012, SQL Server Management Studio, Mongo DB, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, TFS, WCF. Confidential, Deerfield, IL Web UI API Application Developer Responsibilities: Work with clients and Business Analysts to determine software requirements and system impacts. Work with stakeholders to understand current operating model and deficiencies. Work and coordinate with multiple teams - Business, IT, Architecture team. Creates design specifications for high availability and highly scalable applications which will be used by both internal and external customers. Review and understand existing Web applications UI (.Net) and backend (SQL Server). Attend and participate technical design meetings with development team members and assist in defining the system architecture and selecting technologies. Responsible for designing, building, and maintaining, reusable C# based Web applications. Assist managers/superiors with long term-planning and time-framing. Initiates major changes in architecture and software development techniques/processes. Extensively using.Net Framework 4.0 including C#, ASP.Net 4.0, WCF, MVC4 and JQuery. Investigating and evaluating cutting-edge technologies for potential inclusion into our software solutions. Generates technical documentation as well as unit and functional tests. Worked on MS Visio to create Process flow, Work flow, Use Cases and other UML diagrams. Migrate all database components to new SQL Server instance. Convert any inline code to objects and develop packages to replace SPs and Linked Server queries. Work closely with the product team and designers to ensure a first-rate experience. Document and test applications post migration. Once tested, coordinate releases with stakeholders. Mentors junior developers in industry best practices, procedures, and concepts. Environment: Visual Studio, C#, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, HTML/CSS, SQL Server Management Studio, UML, MS Office, VB.Net, ASP.Net MVC 4.0, Query Analyzer, SQL profiler, Knockout JavaScript, TFS. Confidential, Westchester, IL .Net Developer  Responsibilities: Responsible for client interaction, requirement analysis, database development. Setup the project (Website and Web service) and generated the stored procedure and layers for CRUD operation. Responsible for full life cycle development of Branch Credit Card project to implement credit card swipe functionality at the branch location so buyer can pay the required amount through credit card. Implement new requirements/ change requests and update regular status. Provide analysis and estimates for new projects and project proposals. Designed the project architecture including database design, UI design, Data Access Layer (DAL) design, and Business Layer design. Design, development, documenting, and maintenance of various.Net applications. Extensively worked on VB 6.0, VBScript, ASP.Net, C#.Net, VB.Net, JavaScript, CSS, IIS, SQL, and AJAX. Worked with other team members (including offshore), architects and product owners in the early and continuous delivery of high quality software products. Develop technical design documentation based on project requirements. Worked with business owners to understand their needs from an overall application standpoint. Make recommendations with regards to emerging trends, design requirements, best practices, and the utilization of advanced software development methods. Work with project management to create development schedules for the agreed upon scope of each release. Work directly with manager to determine development resources available for your team. Migration of multiple legacy (FLAC/ASAP) applications to.Net form based Web applications. Involved in application systems Integration and migrate the applications from Development to Testing and to Production Server. Worked in fast paced agile (SCRUM) environment including TDD, CI, Refactoring and Code Reviews, work with the Product Owners and other team members to complete the development process. Worked closely with the QA staff to ensure a clear understanding of configurations required for testing of features/functions. Performed unit testing of code modifications to ensure that they meet the business requirements, document and/or address the issue reported in the BMC ticketing system. Daily working on BMC ticket management software for incident ticket management and problem management. Extensively working on MS SQL Server (SQL Server Management Studio 2008); created and enhanced complex Stored Procedure, Views, and Functions. Worked on Load balancing and Performance Issues. Environment: Visual Studio 2010/2012, C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net, ASP.Net MVC 4.0, SQL Server 2008, SQL Server Management Studio, Mongo DB, XML, JavaScript, Query Analyzer, SQL profiler, WPF, jQuery, Knockout JavaScript, TFS, Telerik controls, Entity Framework 4.5. Confidential, Chicago, IL Senior.Net Developer  Responsibilities: Manage team and assign work in an Agile development environment. Develop schedules and milestones for specific project assignments. Create development standards and guidelines for the team. Ensure project completion with established technical specifications and deadlines. Provide technical leadership and mentorship to the team. Research and make recommendations on future technical direction of team. Performs management responsibilities, including reviews with Software Developers. Participate in new development, enhancements and occasional maintenance. Use.Net Framework 3.5/4.0, VB.Net, C#.Net & ASP.Net to construct new applications. Extensively work with Visual Studio 2005/2008, SQL Server Management Studio, and Business Intelligent Development Studio. Create and maintain complex SQL scripts, stored procedures, and views. Extensively worked on Telerik RadGrid and Pie Chart controls. Worked on creating and maintaining SSIS package and Crystal/Access/SQL Server Reports. Source code control using Team Foundation Server and Microsoft Visual Source Safe 6.0. File manipulation, pulling data out of the system, merging it and sending it around to other systems. Ensure proper prioritization and provide regular status updates of progress with management. Ensure all processes have appropriate monitoring, recovery, and security. Use Perl to extract data from the accounting system (Advent Axys) and make modifications / enhancements to overnight batch processing scripts. Environment: Visual Studio 2008/2010, C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net, VB 6.0, VBScript, VBA, ASP.Net MVC 3.0, Entity Framework, SQL Server 2008, SQL Server Management Studio, XML, JavaScript, SQL Server Tools Enterprise Manager, SQL Profiler, Query Analyzer, Business Intelligence Development Studio, DTS, SSIS, SSRS, Active Batch, Perl, Telerik (RadGrid) Controls. Confidential, Chicago, IL .Net Web UI API Developer  Responsibilities: Worked on Object Oriented Analysis and Design. Write new ColdFusion code and upgrade existing functionality. Edit and update ColdFusion code and database records as per requirement. Involved in full life cycle development of new Web application using ASP.Net, SQL Server and its components. Builds, configures, troubleshoots and integrates existing servers to provide service enhancements, application, deployments and infrastructure upgrades. Support user questions, problems, and needs with prompt and courteous attention. Support includes Applications, Databases, System Security, Communications, Internet and Hardware. Recommends software and hardware enhancements, diagnoses and corrects issues, defines and implements new services. Used Telerik RadGrid to generate dynamic grids on various pages. Responsible for monitoring performance and system usage. Provides installation, maintenance and troubleshooting support of information systems applications and related peripheral hardware. Worked with LINQ in customizing insert, update and delete operations (LINQ TO SQL). Analyze requirements, define architecture, produce design documentation, and implement solutions. Design and maintain database schema, write Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Views and Triggers. Working with JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, and Web Services for developing controls on Web forms. Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) to manage changes to the source code. Develop management reports using Crystal Reports. Environment: Visual Studio 2008/2010, C#, ASP.Net, VB 6.0, ASP.Net MVC 2.0, SQL Server 2008, SQL Server Management Studio, XML, JavaScript, SQL Server Tools Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, Telerik Controls. Confidential, Chicago, IL Application Developer (Reverse Engineering)  Responsibilities: Involved in Reverse Engineering of PaymentNet3 to PaymentNet4 Migration. Worked on requirement gathering from by interviewing users and stakeholders. Provide Data Mapping by running stored procedures, views, and database queries. Understand existing C# code of Web application and help design and quality analysis team to understand it. Worked on User Interface using ASP.Net and C#. Developed Web Services to expose common services to internal applications. Extensively worked on creating and updating stored procedures. Extensively worked with Grid View, Details View controls and reading data from different data sources which includes SQL Server and DB2 database. Used C# extensively for creating Business Object and data access object and XML based data entities. Created Functional Related Document based on Source Code. Worked on generating Crystal Reports. Worked creating Use Cases and work flow diagram. Conduct series of meetings with Design Team, Technical Consultants, and Quality Analysts. Discuss and solve business related issues and translate them into Functional Related Documents. Help Design Team and Business partners to understand data mappings and user’s requirements. Help business partners to understand complex reports. Provided user training. Support Technical Review/Evaluation of IT documents and plans as they related to Applications Systems. Documenting existing business processes and translating them into functional requirements documents. Analyzing business and functional requirements to create the high-level technical design. Worked with Business Partners to prioritize work and provide estimates. Environment: Visual Studio. NET 2005/2008, C#, ASP.Net, VB 6.0, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 , SQL Server Management Studio, DB2, MSMQ, Windows Service, XML, JavaScript, SQL Server Tools Enterprise Manager, SQL Profiler, Query Analyzer, Crystal Reports XI, DTS. Confidential, Minneapolis, MN .Net Developer  Responsibilities: Involved in the complete lifecycle (SDLC) of the project. Developed business functionalities and objects using UML. Used C# extensively for creating Business Object and data access object and XML based data entities. Maintained existing e-commerce applications. Developed User Interface using ASP.Net and C#. Developed Business Components and Data Access Components using C#. Used XSLT for transforming the XML to HTML. Developed several user controls to share common functionality across multiple pages. Developed several reports for managers and over manager using Crystal Reports. Used MSMQ and Windows Service for Check-in and Approval process. Ajaxified the application for faster response. Developed Web Services to expose common services to internal applications. Extensively worked on stored procedures. Extensively worked with Grid View, Details View controls and reading data from different data sources which includes SQL Server and DB2 database. Used Visual Source Safe, and Team Foundation Server (TFS) to manage the source code. Environment: Visual Studio. NET 2005/2008, C#, ASP.Net, VB 6.0, SQL Server 2000/2005, DB2, MSMQ, Windows Service, XML, Crystal Reports XI, JavaScript. 