PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY: Overall 8+years’ experience in Planning, Analysis, Design, Development of ERP applications. Implemented the Workday solution in Core Financials, Revenue Management, Cash Management, Expense Management & Procurement areas. Experience in working with customers to define their Workday Financial Data Model. Financials - Experienced in understand client business requirements, Organizational Hierarchy setup, configurable Security setup, Tenant Setup, Custom field mapping, and System process designs. Hands on Experience in configuration of workday modules like suppliers, Customers, Invoice generation & payment modules and different types of Simple, Advanced Custom Reports and Matrix Reports in Workday. Involved in creating the Technical Design Documents for the Integrations based on the Functional Design Documents. Defines Test Strategy and Test Approach. Manages the overall test project plan, time tracking, defect management, issue resolution, and risk management. Proficient in analyzing and translating business requirements to technical requirements and architecture. Excellent analytical and logical programming skills with a good understanding at the conceptual level. TECHNICAL SKILLS: ERP Technologies: Workday Financials, PeopleSoft Financials, Oracle Cloud Financials. Financial Modules: PeopleSoft Financials (Accounts Receivables, Accounts Payable, E-Procurement, S-Procurement, Grants, Inventory, General Ledger, Billing,Purchasing,Maintenance Management, Strategic Sourcing, Commitment Control, Asset Management) People Tools: Application Designer, People tools, People Code, Query designer, ApplicationEngine, File Layouts, App Messaging, Integration broker, Component Interface, Workflow, Process Scheduler, Tree manager, vanilla security, EDI Manager, Data Mover. Reporting: Report Writer, Custom Reports, OBIEE, Xmlp, BI Publisher. RDBMS: Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server. Languages: HTML/DHTML, VBScript, JavaScript, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell script. Operating Systems: Windows XP, UNIX Third party tools: Toad PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, NV Financial Analyst Responsibilities: Manage theWorkdayFinancialsproduct to support Finance/Accounting WorkdayReport Writer - creating and maintaining custom Income Statement, Trial Balance, and operational reports for the global firm; experienced with calculated fields, advanced, matrix, composite reports, and dashboards (company and organizational reporting). Involved in several inbound/ Outbound integrations with either internal or external systems using EIB. Experience in Uploading of suppliers and Customers and journal reports using Inbound EIB. Provide support as needed to Workday end users as it relates to Workday Financials. Serve as the main point of contact for Workday Financials ad hoc data requests and reporting needs. Create the Organization structure with Cost centers, cost center hierarchy and configure the cost center organization structure. Identify Workday solutions that will help drive efficiency within the Finance function. Responsible for fulfillment of all company-wide Workday Security access requests. Analyzed and provided best practice recommendations for Workday access issues and requests. Supervised and tested all requirements for multiple Workday upgrades as it relates to Security. Involved in integration services which uses data XSLT to convertworkdayxml to a readable format sent to external applications. ConfiguredWorkdaysecurity roles and groups to the required level of confidentially and segregation of duties. Written reports that extractWorkdaydata and manipulate the data in other formats for various needs. Experience in understanding client business requirements, configure theWorkdaysolution, configurations through the development of prototype systems, and testingtheWorkdaysolution. Requirements gathering, system analysis, configuration, /documentation, and data analysis/reporting pertaining toWorkdaymodules. Good Experience in data Conversions from Other system toWorkdaySystem. In depth knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Phases such as Requirement analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment. Confidential, Providence, RI Workday Analyst. Responsibilities: Act as a liaison between departmental end-users, technical analysts, information technology analysts, and other clients to ensure optimal operational performance. Assist with the execution of major system changes (e.g., updates, integrations, new configurations) and participate in all aspects of system testing. Create and maintain Lineage’s catalog offinancialreports inWorkdayFinancialsand support Finance with reporting technology to ensure any critical issues are resolved quickly. Create and maintainWorkdayroles based on related groups of user access rights and privileges. IdentifyWorkdaysolutions that will help drive efficiency within the Finance function. Provide support to key accounting users in masteringWorkdayfor their activities. Serve as the main point of contact forWorkdayFinancialsad hoc data requests and reporting needs. Extensively worked onWorkdaydata conversion andWorkdayintegrations. Experienced to work onWorkdayReport Writer and creating custom integrations with third party applications Worked in different modules in Financials like Suppliers, Customers, Invoices & Payments. Experience working with Configuration of the Cost centers & Journals for the organization in the ERP system. Support inbound/outbound integration with other systems usingWorkdaytools Support the project from creation to implementation ensuring that project/tasks have been completed successfully. Worked on Data Conversion from various LegacyFinancialSystems to One common ERP. Assist with budget and strategic planning. Review current supply chain operations to document product, service, and information flow using project management tools. Work alongside other Business Analysts, Functional Consultants, and Developers to determine scope, develop project plan, and estimate resource allocations for the successful delivery of business applications. Work under minimal supervision while being able to manage multiple project tasks along with prioritizing. Confidential, Columbus, OH PeopleSoft Analyst Responsibilities: Create and post monthly standard journal entries for the university. Analyze balance sheets and income statements to seek out accounts with significant variances. Investigate the cause of the variance and if needed, create a journal entry to make any correction. Adjust balance sheet work papers to shows transactions that makes up the amount on the balance sheet every month. Run monthly queries to check for missing tree nodes or errors on journal entries. Organize the funds accounts by keeping the electronic files neat and consistent. Building several Graphical reports usingPeopleSoftCharts. Creating new BI publisher reports some with connected queries. Configured Related Content Services, Toolbars for Job Opening, Offer, Applicant, Application components. Building custom components, Dashboards, pagelets and Fluid pages and Activity Guides.Prepare and maintain Project Trackers for each Phase: Work-sessions, Time-line, Tasks, Components, Business Processes, Customizations, Enhancements, Conversions, Reports, Testing, Issues, etc. Prepare Status Reports on a weekly basis; including a status on all project milestones, new issues, updates on current issues, discussion points, work sessions held, and the scheduled tasks for the following week. Handled several production support issues in Student Records, Admission data, Student Financials. Confidential, Louisville, KY PeopleSoft Analyst Responsibilities: Extensively worked in various stages afterPeopleSoftimplementation/upgrade (Fit Gap Analysis, Requirement gathering, Business Process Reengineering, Designing, Testing and Production Support). Had to fulfill role of both Functional and Technical analyst, while having extensive direct interaction with end-users. Set up the Bank Reconciliation functionality for both Account Payables and Payroll modules. Involved in Security Administration to create new Permission Lists and roles as per the client requirement. Extensively involved in supporting and testing the several Tools upgrades. Involved in Database administration on data integrity issues withinFinancialspay cycle process. Involved in Purchasing on daily requisition processing issues, assisting with buyer setup and security. Developed solutions to resolve asset management balancing issues. ConfiguredBusiness Units, Ledgers and Ledger Groups. Maintained Business Units and Accounts reporting tress usingTree Manager. Configuredmonth-endandYear-end close. Configured newJournal Sources. Designed and tested GL Interface. ConfiguredLocations, Calendars, Asset Booksand createdAM Business Units. Involved in resolving production issues for all PeopleSoft modules within a timely manner. Involved in producing of ad-hoc reports via queries. Involved in creation of test plans, test scripts, and perform end-to-end testing. Confidential, Round Rock, TX PeopleSoft Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in Procure-To-Pay Transformation of the Business Process as Senior Functional Consultant beginning with Purchasing, Payables, Financial Gateway, AM, and GL Modules Specifically involved in Procure-To-Pay Business Process Modules - Purchasing, Payables, Financial Gateway, and GL Designed and Co-ordinated the Execution of the Tests for the Procure-To-Pay Business Process (PO-AP-GL). Worked withAccounts Payable, General Ledger cash Management. Configured Payables and Banking to integrate with Financial Gateway. Configured and implemented Voucher Excel Upload, GL Journal Excel Upload processes Configured Process for Single Payment Vouchers/Vendors. Coordinated with various project teams for meeting System Integration, Performance, Regression and User Acceptance testing requirements and Highlighted issues that pose risk to the project plan. Developed SQL Queries to query the database to conduct report data validation. Extensively used TOAD to verify source and target data after the workflow runs using SQL. Participated in daily scrum to triage the defect tracking process. Designed Testing Strategy, Scenarios, Plans, Scripts and lead testing efforts in all the testing phases for the above modules. Prepared and verified security changes document (permission lists, roles, user profiles) based on user requirements. Prepared detail design documents, which include both functional specifications and technical design specifications for interfaces in GL, AP, AR, PO & BI. This involved mapping the legacy system values with that of the PeopleSoft system and wrote various test scenarios for the same. Involved in reviewing the requirement specs and use cases for AP implementation. Performed fit/Gap analysis based on the AP requirements and use cases. Setup and configuration of Business Unit and SETID structure for financial modules. Developed custom maintenance pages and wrote People Code for maintaining different levels of approvals based on monitory amounts for various departments, fund, and category approvals. Confidential   PeopleSoft Functional QA Analyst Responsibilities: Worked in GL module of PeopleSoft Financials, worked on both manual and automation testing of the application. Involved in Functional Testing and supporting the PeopleSoft General Ledger which included workflow, Online Reporting, and Security. Created Test plans and Test Cases from the test requirements using HP Quality Center. Participated in requirements management, including reviewing requirements for testability and overseeing the Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) Defined & prepared testing strategy, testing phases, & testing timeline. Defined entry & exit criteria for each of the testing phases like Unit, System, Integration, UAT, & Payroll Parallel. Worked with Internal audit team to understand testing expectation and testing evidence requirements. Coordinated & monitored the integration testing across the modules and served as a liaison between vendor QA team and functional track leads. Provided daily updates with dashboard on vendor testing to the project teamand upper management. Prepared UAT test plan, User sign in sheets, user sign off sheets as part of user Acceptance testing. Conducted daily defect meetings to go over the defects at each testing phase. Tested Component Interface, LDAP load functionality and Tree Security Issues on PeopleSoft Financials for the Restatement Project. Organized daily General Ledger meetings to discuss the status of GL testing process with QA Lead, QA managers, lead developers and Business Users. Worked in design of User manuals for the understanding of customers and was Involved in meeting with the clients regarding the requirements and other discussions.