SUMMARY Seven years of experience in business analysis, business requirements modeling and development of Web Based, and Client/Server applications in diverse business domains of Finance, Banking and Service Industry Sectors. Proficient in gathering and converting User Requirements into Business Requirements and Functional Requirement Specifications (FRS) and use Modeling tools like Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio for requirements modeling. Expertise in Business Process Modeling, Business Process Re - design and in designing Process Architecture. Sound understanding of Gap Analysis, requirement management, risk analysis and project plans. Solid understanding of Rational Unified Process (RUP) using Rational Rose, Requisite Pro, Unified Modeling Language (UML), Object Modeling Technique (OMT), Extreme Programming (XP), and Object Oriented Analysis (OOA). Participation in teh Credit Risk Analysis like Estimation of PD, LGD and EAD. Excellent understanding of Data Models and Information Architecture and sound skills in SQL. Experience in Risk Management process and technology reengineering, Sarbanes Oxley implementation, valuation review process and technology, strategic sourcing, metrics and benchmarking Excellent in designing business models using UML diagrams such as use case diagrams, class diagrams, activity diagrams, sequence diagrams and collaboration diagrams using Rational Rose and MS Visio. Expertise in using teh testing tools such as Mercury Quality Center (QC)/Test Director and Quick Test Pro (QTP). Highly efficient in using teh change management tools of Version Control System like Document Center/Documentum and IBM Rational Clear Case. Strong noledge and experience in writing and executing SQL queries for database testing. Experience in developing QA test cases, test scenario and leading towards UAT and Beta Testing for ensuring teh application’s successfulness. Experience in conducting Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions and White Board Sessions wif end-users, Subject Matter Expert (SMEs) team, Architects and design group development and QA team for project meetings, walkthroughs and customer interviews commensurate wif excellent communication skills. Creative and aggressive self-starter wif integrative thinking skills, capable of communicating creative ideas through graphical analysis charts and statistical data display. TECHNICAL SKILLS Business Analysis Business Architecture Data Mapping Data Modeling Requirements Gathering Functional Specification Design Testing (Test Cases) (Manual Testing & Automated Testing tools) Quality Assurance (QA) Documenting Process Flow Process Re-Engineering Process Mapping Business Contingency/ Business Continuity Planning (BCP) GAP Analysis SDLC Rational Team Test OOAD (OOA/OOD) RUP UML Rational Rose Clear Case Clear Quest WinRunner Load Runner and Test Director C C++ Java HTML J2EE VB 6.0 SQL Windows 9x/NT/2000/XP Unix Linux Solaris Oracle SQL Server and MS Access TSL SQL Basic Shell Scripts MS Visio MS office Silverlight Adobe PageMaker Adobe PhotoShop MS Project 2002 Adobe workflow systems Weblogic Server iRise Mercury Quality Center PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Baltimore, MD  Sr. Business Analyst/Data Analyst Responsibilities: Helped in defining Change Management Process for Release Management Team. Mapped process flow; assess as-is a process through user interviews, data collection and analysis, design and evaluation of to-be process solutions. Prepared for GAP Analysis; identified and documented improved areas to meet capital requirement regulations for Basel II Compliance. Prepared Business Object / Business Process Models that included modeling of all teh activities of business from conceptual to procedural level. Strong understanding of securities back office operations. Worked on Investment/portfolio management in multicurrency securities, equities, Fixed Income, portfol0io accounting and related back office processing, lifecycle of a trade, Lifecycle of an account, Security setup, Account setup, Reconciliation. Experience wif set of online tools for effective cash management by teh back office. Conducting requirement sessions and successfully translating of those requirements into Use Cases and GUI wireframes. Documenting business and system needs via teh creation of a variety of documents including Scope documents, Use Case Storyboards, GUI wireframes and Software Requirement Specifications. Extensive experience in configuring data mapping between different Databases. Configured teh Data mapping between Oracle and SQL Server 2005. Collected business requirements to set rules for proper data transfer from Data Source to Data Target in Data Mapping Gatheird user and business requirements through surveys, prototyping and observing from portfolio managers and UI (User Interface). Documented Requirements for Activity management, Fixed Income, Asset Management Services, Client portfolio management, Order management system, Performance, Equities, Reconciliation, Transaction capture/Execution and reporting requirements for teh user interface. Responsible for gathering and analyzing business requirements, writing specifications of back/middle office interfaces, preparing use cases using Unified Modelling Language and Rational Rose. Designed and developed Use Cases using UML and Business Process Modelling. Developed data conversion programs for membership, claims, and benefit accumulator data - converted thirteen corporate acquisitions. Developed data field mappings. Provided programming and support for claims processing functions and auto-adjudication. Delivered presentations on Project Status and Current Open Issues Report to Users, Stakeholders and other involved groups. Designed and Developed teh Business Objects Universes which suit teh standard, analytical and ad-hoc reporting requirements of teh Business Objects users Defined roles and responsibilities of participants in teh business process. Developed and maintain information and documentation related to developing and modifying business processes and systems. Recommend system/process solution approaches to minimize risk and workflow impacts while capitalize strategic goals. Assisted process owners in process training and implementation. Streamlined teh Restatement Financial Data Warehouse access review Process. Gatheird requirements from users of teh Clear Quest (CQ) tool for any Enhancements or change requests for any defects. Involved in Six Sigma process analysis. Planned and defined system requirements to Wire Frame wif Use Case, Use Case Scenario and Use Case Narrative using teh UML (Unified Modeling Language) methodologies. Led and conducted JAD sessions for requirements gathering, analysis and design of teh system. Created context and workflow models, information and business rule models, Use Case and Object Models during teh analysis using rational tools. Designed and developed project document templates based on SDLC methodology Established RUP (Rational Unified Process) methodology and provided assistance in developing Use cases and project plans. Analyze business requirements and segregated them into Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and OOD using Borland Together according to UML methodology thus defining teh Data Process Models. Environment: Mainframes, COBOL, JCL, XML, Db2, Oracle, Rose, Basel II, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Visio, MS Project, MS SharePoint, LoadRunner, WinRunner Confidential, Minneapolis, MI Business Analyst/Data Analyst Responsibilities: Worked wif teh business community to define business requirements and analyze teh possible technical solutions. Worked extensively wif SME in understanding and documenting their requirements pertaining to monitoring changes and portraying a trend to maintain and analyze customer needs and many other business areas. Co-authored documents for Brokerage Trade Data using teh Charles River Trading Tool. Co-authored documents for capturing pricing data using Bloomberg and Reuters terminals. Worked as Project Manager for time being, led a group of 15 plus people, modified timeline for program planning period in order to include Project Initiation Phase. Facilitated JAD Sessions and handled change management. Conducted market research and analysis in Capital Markets consisting of Stock Market and Bond Market. Mainly involved in Fixed income securities trading Scheduled and conducted meetings wif client work group (SME’s) to identify requirements, and documented them in SRS document and identified priorities Created detailed requirements for Fixed income process workflow Assured that all artifacts are in compliance wif corporate SDLC policies and guidelines Analyzed teh various kinds of risks that had to be accounted such as teh Asset Class Risk for e.g. Credit Card Risk, Personal Loan Risk, Mortgage Loan risk, etc Modeled teh risks in Excel spreadsheet and performed sensitivity analysis and shared dis document wif teh managers and teh technical team to facilitate more efficient communication Used MS Projects to schedule and track teh activities in teh project Involved in performance testing, functional testing and integration testing Used Rational Rose to designed and develop Use Cases scenarios, Use Cases models, Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams and State chart diagrams created Use Case model and process flow diagrams using MS Visio Performed mapping of records layouts from disparate source systems Traced Requirements to High Level Design, Test Cases and Product Requirements Co-authored many business requirements document wif project teams for Fixed Income and Brokerage documents. Extract, discuss, and refine business requirements from business users and team members. Environment: MS Visio 2003, MS Word 2003, J2EE, MS Access 2003, Oracle 9i, Charles River IMS, Reuters 3000 Xtra, Bloomberg Terminal Confidential, PA Business Analyst/ Data Analyst Responsibilities: Facilitated Joint Requirement Planning (JRP) sessions wif SME’s in understanding teh Requirements pertaining to Loan Origination to Loan Processing. Extracted teh Business Requirements from teh end users keeping in mind their need for teh application and prepared Business Requirement Documents (BRD) using Rational RequisitePro. Reviewed Design Documents, Requirements Analysis Specifications wif Project Lead, Business Owners and teh Technical Lead. Managed software artifacts for teh suite of investment products such as Online Banking and Brokerage, BIDS, Insurance etc Worked wif teh SME, Tech Lead and 3rd party vendors in gathering requirements and data transaction information related to Capital Markets - Online Brokerage, IVR trading, Conventional Brokerage, Orders, Trades Executed and SPS Orders for reinvestment agreement to write global specs. Write Detailed Business requirements documents (BRD) and assessment of current OTC derivatives instruction trade management processes for front, middle and back office, reference data, data attributes and security master database. Organized and actively participated in requirements gathering workshops involving various key business users from teh Portfolio Management Unit and Back Office Unit. Created and managed Project Templates, Use Case Project Templates, Requirement Types and Traceability Relationships in RequisitePro. Created wireframes to present teh features of teh application to stakeholders and business owners Analyzed product fit wif business plans, developed business requirements and functional specifications. Mapped navigation paths and data flows, developed wireframes of screen layouts and prototype designs to meet interface requirements Involved in creating automated Test Scripts representing various Transactions, Documenting teh Load Testing Process and Methodology. Created meaningful reports for analysis and integrated teh Performance Testing in teh SDLC. Responsible for gathering requirements from users in operations group and performing data mapping for teh application, confirm and vacillating teh requirement at time of BA testing. Worked on data modeling and produced data mapping and data definition documentation Developed and managed Project Plans and Schedules. Managed resolution of Project issues and conflicts. Conducted Functional Walkthroughs, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), and supervised teh development of User Manuals for customers. Worked as a User/Customer advocate and negotiated wif user as well as wif developers and management staff to resolve any requirement conflict to bridge teh Gaps between IT and Business. Various versions of teh documents generated during teh project were maintained and managed using Rational ClearCase and performed defect tracking using Rational ClearQuest. Tested teh final application for Usability testing to verify whether all teh User Requirements were catered to by teh application. Environment: RUP, UML, SDLC, XML, MS Office, MS Project, MS Visio, DOORS, Project Management Confidential, KS Business Analyst Responsibilities: Gatheird legacy system requirements by shadowing Customer Service Representatives (CSRs), Customer Relationship Representatives (CRRs), preparing questionnaires, to identify limitations in teh current system and GAPS in teh proposed system. Created an enterprise workflow application based on CRUD rules for Customer Data that would allow for future integration of data infrastructure across various business areas into a single UI. Prepared logical data model in teh form of Business Context diagram to include various entities and attributes in order to facilitate teh design of Data model in teh form of ER Diagrams. Studied current information structures and data models of teh current databases to better understand teh design of target data source. Performed custom data conversions and developed custom software for risk management applications including general claims, vehicle accident and administrative tracking. Performed all data field mappings. Interacted wif client's front and back office personnel to define business requirements and software usage Experience from Front to back office, worked wif fund managers, financial advisors and technical team members. Planned and defined system requirements to Wire Frames wif Use Case, Use Case Scenario and Use Case Narrative using teh UML (Unified Modeling Language) methodologies. Documented business and technical requirements along wif UI wireframes. Conducted walkthroughs wif teh end users and stakeholders to gather teh modification requests from teh user to upgrade or change teh business specifications for teh product. Used Rational Rose to model teh process using UML to create behavioral and structural diagrams. Used Rational Clear Quest to track required changes and Rational Clear Case to maintain different versions of teh project documentation Collected business requirements to set rules for proper data transfer from Data Source to Data Target in Data Mapping Data transfers from text files and Access databases using BCP and DTS; Data mapping and transformations while loading data using VBScript. Modeled Business requirements into workflows to depict various scenarios of system to request RFI and RFP responses from major vendors. Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, OOAD using UML and Business Process Modeling. Intricately involved in Business Process Flow development, Business Process Modeling, and ad hoc Analysis Performed detailed comparative analysis of response to RFPs of vendors and Graphically Represented teh recommended solutions in PowerPoint to Senior Management Prepared Business Context Diagram, Use Case diagrams and corresponding Activity Diagrams using Rational Rose to depict teh workflows to be incorporated into teh development of Pega Business Process Management (BPM) tool. Involved in creation and execution of manual test cases in Mercury Test Director and automated Test Cases in QTP and analyzed teh Test Results. All teh test scenarios which have been satisfied wif teh functionality are moved to automation testing using Quick Test Professional. Prepared teh test data and executed SQL queries to verify and do teh database testing. Prepared Test Cases based on base-lined Requirements Document, prepared Requirements Traceability Matrix and provided Performance Testing Requirements. Worked very closely wif teh Test team to Test all iterations during teh Testing Phase and documented all teh defects. Environment: Windows, Oracle, SQL, XML, MS Visio, MS Access, MS Project, MS SharePoint,UML, Requisite pro, Rational ClearQuest. 