Objective To obtain Business Analyst position and to contribute to the success of the company. SUMMARY Over 5 years of experience working as BA with successful and progressive experience in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and methodologies like Agile, Water Fall, Scrum, Unified Modeling Language (UMLs), process modeling, and business process flow diagrams. Extensive experience in requirements gathering by conducting and coordinating JAD Sessions with business - users/clients/stake holders, IT groups and SME’s. Hands on experience working with MS Share point as a tool addressing the business needs with respect to bridging the gap between the Business and the IT teams by providing a consistent method of communication flow. Participated in scrum ceremonies such as sprint planning, retrospectives, daily stand ups. Good knowledge in creating user acceptance documentation for Test Plans, Test Cases, and Test Scenarios Well versed in Version Control and Management tools like JIRA, SharePoint and MS-office. Outstanding organizational skills including ability to multitask prioritize and manage increasingly complex issues. Strong work ethic, taking ownership of all duties and responsibilities and meeting management skills. Good understanding of Business Relationships and Business Requirements. Mature understanding of Quality Assurance Methodology STLC relative to SDLC. Exclusive analytical, problem solving, Leadership Proficiency, interpersonal communication skills and quick learning abilities. Formally trained in Business Analysis through IIBA accredited training center. Good knowledge of BABOK. TECHNICAL SKILLS Software: Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, and Outlook) MS Visio, Rational suite, JIRA and, Quality Center. Operating Systems: Win XP, 2000, win7 Processes/Technologies: SDLC, waterfall, Agile(SCRUM Process), Rational Unified Process (RUP) Business Skills: Business Requirements Document, Business Process Analysis, Use Case Modeling & Analysis, SDLC Methodologies and Specification Requirements Document. Business Process Modeling: Process Models (UML) UML Activity Diagrams: Process Models (Non -UML) Data flow diagrams, Workflow diagrams, Flowcharts Usage Models (Non- UML) Storyboards, Dynamic and Static Prototyping, User Interface Designs and User stories Usage Models (UML Use Cases): Use Case Diagrams, Use case description and product life cycle. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Brooklyn, NY Business Analyst Responsibilities: Conducted sessions for understanding business expectations and for gathering requirements from various SMEs (Subject Matter Experts) Actively involved in requirement gathering and requirement management. Analyzed requirement, assigned attributes and segregated them into high level and low level use cases. Developed requirement Traceability Matrix and attribute traceability matrix to manage changing requirements. Created weekly dashboards to communicate the projects status and progress to the management and all involved teams. Created daily status reports during critical phases of the project like UAT and Deployment Created data flow diagrams depicting the reporting system’s upstream and downstream data dependencies and conducted walkthrough session with all related teams to communicate the dependencies. Analyzed business requirement documents and developed use cases, use case diagrams, activity diagrams, state chart diagrams Conducted daily status meeting with development team, deployment team, Servicers team and business during UAT to resolve outstanding issues and assign priority and severity to defects. Aided JAD session follow-ups for project plan updates and gained consensus for User Acceptance Testing requirements Worked with UAT team to validate the developed application meets the business requirements Conducted training sessions for the end users and documented various training manuals Production support - to end users as well as development team during initial system deployment and fixes on daily basis Involved in testing on all stages of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Environment: MS Visio, MS Office, SharePoint Confidential, Parsippany, NJ Business Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in all phases of Requirement - Requirement Gathering, Analyzing, Detailing and Documenting requirements and tracking the initiative progress. Prepare Business Process Models, which includes modeling of all activities of the business from conceptual to procedural level. Worked with more than 50 profit centers and 30 Underwriting, Claims and financial applications to implement the projects. Gathered region specific requirements from Confidential ’s Operations and IT departments in various countries and aggregated them to develop single application. Documented various documents including Business Case Documents, Feasibility study document and Business Requirements Document, Operational Flow Diagrams, SDLC artifacts documents such as Master test plan, Change initiation request etc. Conducted Gap analysis to understand new business model and additional functionalities to be incorporated into the new application. Acted as QA Lead and tested multiple applications to ensure proper code is being delivered to UAT. Conducted end to end UAT with the Business and multiple applications to make sure that all the Business Requirements are addressed in the application, in the interfacing system and all the way in all downstream systems and finally in the financial books. Managed a complete UAT cycle starting from Test Cycles planning, Schedule, ID setup for the users, URL and other application related details, Defect tracking and Management and Status reporting. Conducted brainstorming and JAD sessions with all the stakeholders to define and prioritize the requirements and resolve the issues. Ensure traceability of test cases back to project requirements. Manage relationships and expectations by developing a communication process to keep business sponsors up-to-date on results; staying current with stakeholder expectations of deliverables and outcomes. Environment: MS Project, Visio, MS Office Suite (Word, Excel and PowerPoint), HP Quality Center. Confidential, WA Business Analyst Responsibilities: Worked on multiple projects while working in cross-functional teams. Worked primarily with the billings team at Confidential with the implementation of the Advantage promotion. Gathered requirements for the Confidential Advantage program, which expands customer discount to corporate clients. Also, gathered requirements and co-authored the BRD for the JUMP upgrade project. The JUMP project sought to make changes to an already existing system, which enables a customer to upgrade a device anytime. Gathered requirements from stakeholders, developed Process Model and detailed workflow diagrams in order to implement the Advantage program. Prepared the Business Workflow using MS-Visio. Analyzed the impact and changes created due to the promotions on the billing systems. Worked with the billing team in restructuring the existing system in order to implement the promotion. Created tangible timelines that meet project goals and adjusted accordingly. Monitored the progress of the project and updated the Project Status weekly on SharePoint indicating dates, deliverables and risks. Worked with the clients on final signing process in the User Acceptance Testing (UAT) stages. Environment: MS Visio, MS Office, SharePoint 