SUMMARY Over 8+ Years of IT Experience as a Business Analyst in deployment of web - based, client-server applications, developing business processes and system solutions for Banking, Loans & Mortgages, Healthcare and Retail projects from conceptualization to implementation. Strong experience working in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using various methodologies including Agile, Waterfall. Extensive experience in gathering Business and Functional Requirement. Solid understanding of the development (SDLC) or project life cycle, which includes all phases from discovery/analysis through implementation. Expert at interacting with stakeholders, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) and end-users to understand, analyze, communicate and validate requirements using Joint Application Design (JAD) sessions. Developing Use Cases, conducting Gap Analysis and Impact Analysis. Expert in using industry standards to uncover the client requirements and identifying the system requirements by creating Use Case Models, Data Flow Models. Experience in Risk Analysis & Risk Management for product life cycle and in process of implementing document. Ability to work with cross-functional teams and interact effectively with multiple levels of management. Ability to execute against tight deadlines, work with minimum supervision, flexible, organize and prioritize work. Strong background in developing Functional Specification Documents, Use Cases, Impact Matrix, Process Diagrams, Traceability Matrices and other project level documentation as require. Good expertise in creating Test Cases on the basis of product features, client requirements and technical documents. Developed, executed and maintained Test Scripts. Reviewed and documented system Test Plans. Process Improvement, Requirements Gathering, Design, Development, Change Control Process, Quality Assurance Testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) &Training. Ability to successfully manage multiple deadlines, multiple projects and multiple locations effectively through a combination of business and cross-functional departments. Experienced in SQL queries to extract data from various databases for data analysis. Used Microsoft office Suite extensively which includes MS Word, MS Excel, MS Power Point and MS Visio for project documentation and analysis reports. Creativity and ability to adapt to new technologies and applications. Proven ability to achieve results in very high pressure environments and to keep teams motivated TECHNICAL SKILLS Business Modeling Tools: Rational Rose, Rational Enterprise Suite, MS Visio Requirement Management Tools: Rational Requisite Pro, Blue Print Change Management Tools: Rational Clear Case, Rational Clear Quest Analysis/ Modeling Tools: UML, JAD, RUP, Waterfall, Agile, JIRA Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows 98/95/2000, Windows XP, Window 7 Database: SQL Server 2008/2005, Oracle 10g/11g Utility: MS Office Suite Word, Excel, Visio, PowerPoint, Lotus Notes PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, MN BUSINESS ANALYST/ DATA ANALYST Responsibilities: Used Agile for software development life cycle, documenting and working through systems issues as part of an analysis team Designed and developed project document templates based on Scrum to manage deliverables and expedite product release Conducted Sprint planning sessions, and Daily Stand up meetings Co-ordinate workflow among team members and manage project deliverables like Document (BRD), and communicate progress through regular meeting with internal and external stakeholders Prepare project vision, and project scope document along with the project manager and other team members Facilitated JAD sessions with SME’s in understanding the requirements pertaining to Loan Origination to Loan Processing. Served as a liaison between mortgage specialists and the project team. Responsible for gathering user requirements and specifications for designing a mortgage based loan system using and documenting the same. Conducted JAD sessions with the stakeholders, end users and SME, to determine the critical business processes and identify key functional requirements for LoanServ system adhering to the Mortgage Servicing Industry practices and FDIC guidelines. Developed As-Is and To-Be Business Process Models for complex processes by analyzing the current processes, and gathering information from SME's Worked with cross-functional teams including consumer brands, sales, marketing, and IT Interaction with the Subject Matter Expert and business users for requirements gathering by conducting more than one JAD sessions. Utilized agile software development methodology to manage and control software and product development. Created and managed project templates, Use Case Project templates, requirement types and traceability relationships in Rational Requisite Pro. Worked to create Data Mapping Documents and worked with business to write transformation rules through SQL. Used MS-Visio and UML for use-case flow diagram and design documentation. Schedule and conduct interviews with business users, review systems environment and functionality, research and analyze business processes and obtain signoffs Conducted feature testing and functional defects using JIRA Assist with the development and execution of detailed system, test cases and test scripts for manual and automated testing. Assisted Strategy and Architecture manager in enhancing alignment between business processes and Information Technology. Conducted interviews, joint discussions and created Capability Models Responsible for assessing Investment Requirement for IT in web presence management Independently met with senior executives, conducted interviews, gathered data, coordinated demos of vendor products and documented current state Environment: MS Access, UML, MS Visio 2008, Microsoft Office 2008, MS Project, Visual Studio 2008 professional, Salesforce.com, Apex Classes, Visual Force Pages,JIRA, Data Loader, Workflow Alerts, Approvals, Validation Rules, Sharing rules, Reports, Standard & Custom Objects, Tabs, Email Templates, Roles, Profiles, HTML, Force.com IDE.. Confidential, Miamisburg OH Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Liaison between the Lines of Business and Combine knowledge of what the business wants with knowledge of how the systems are built, how the data is managed, and used to create a functional designs across applications. Conducted meetings, interviews and JAD sessions with stakeholders to collect business requirements. This information along with the vision document was used to transform business requirements into System Requirement Specifications. Working closely with the business users to understand the current state and Confidential state business processes. Performed the role of Onsite coordinator and leading a team of 6-7 developers at offshore to reverse engineer the existing code of entire Mortgage app and enhancing the same. Coordinated with System Analyst and Project Manager to set-up the pre-validation and validation Collaborated with respective Application Team in fine tuning the data gathering requirements, field identification, data profiling and validation. Documented all the above and presented in weekly milestone meetings. Written SQL queries to extract, manipulate, and/or calculate information to fulfill data and reporting requirements including identifying the tables and columns from which data is extracted Interpreted Use Case diagram, Sequence diagram and Class diagram. Conducted user interviews to understand the Mortgage experience Ensure project documents are complete, current, and stored appropriately. Coordinated with technical lead and project manager to finalize the data model. Transitioned new report requirements and application changes to the development team. Participated in the logical and physical design sessions and developed design documents. Worked closely with other groups to resolve the issues preventing alignment on milestones, resources and deliverables. Analyzed user requirements, attended Change Request meetings to document changes and implemented procedures to test changes. Conducted walkthroughs with the end users and stakeholders to gather the modification requests from the user to upgrade or change the business specifications for the product. Assisted in Conducting UAT (User Acceptance Testing) to make sure that all the user requirements are catered by the application and take sign off from Business to move production. Involved in preparing User manual for the application and training for the same Environment: Microsoft Windows 2000, SQL,JIRA, Dot Net, MS Office (Excel, Word, PowerPoint), Rational Rose, Rational Clear Case, Rational Clear Quest, Microsoft Visio. Confidential, Chicago, IL Business / Data Analyst Responsibilities: Analyzed existing Business units, Business process, System / Application and their Interfaces through open-ended discussions, brainstorming sessions and prototyping. Prioritized them and converted them as system requirements that must be included while developing the software. Co-ordinated with documenting processes used agile methodology to write the Business Requirements documents and designed Functional specifications. Lead the team on the SAP GRC 10 upgrade. Worked in migrating customized rules from SAFE to GRC compliance Calibrator. Served as a liaison between the internal/external business community and the IT organization in order to provide technical solutions to meet user needs. Participated in design review meetings and translated the requirements to the developers and guided the team when issues related to business requirements arose. Worked with Associates and understood the business rules, systems and integrated them into the requirements document and assisted in generation of test cases and test data. Delivered consistent daily results as the fixed income capital markets office manager reporting directly to SVP and VPs of trading desk. Created workflows, data diagrams and other industry standard documents to represent client’s business processes. Conducted JAD sessions between the business users, Developers, testers & Subject Matter Experts to resolve bottlenecks. Used HL7 guidelines and dictionary for defining business rules associated with pre-defined workflows according to business requirements. Used ST03N/ GRC report for deletion of unused transactions. Played important role into creation of CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) Metric to make analysis and better understand data flows between different systems Conducted Risk Analysis to identify the risks associated with developing the patches, and formulated a Mitigation Plan to eliminate or reduce risks of high severity and any major effects. Played an active role in performing of Gap Analysis and its documentation. Interacted with client to present future functionality of the application and gathered information from them to understand their need and send this information to test manager. Worked closely with the application development team, design team and testing team to resolve technical issues and interacted with them to ensure overall quality of the software. Responsible for creating & maintaining Requirement Traceability Matrix in order to track the development and QA process. Designed custom rules for identifying violations and ensuring compliance with U.S. Federal Business Standards. Redesign and customize rules to correct false positives in new business development. Lead cross-functional collaboration in designing client-specific global rule set Interacted closely with QA to finalize the Test strategies and maintained quality assurance using HP Quality Center. Provided production support preproduction and post production issue management and defect tracking. Performed data validation by creating ad hoc reports for Business Managers. Environment: UNIX, Epic System, SQL Advantage, MS Visio, Capital Marketing, MS Word, Clear Case, Clear Quest, HP Quality Center, Office 365, ST03N, UAT Confidential, Westlake, TX Business Analyst Responsibilities: Served as a liaison between the business team, project team by assisting the business team in identifying, understanding, and documenting their business needs. Collected and documented business processes as well as business rules. Created UML Diagrams like Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Process flow diagrams to elaborate the new processes using Rational Rose. Gathered business requirements through interviews, surveys, prototyping and observations of account managers and UI (User Interface) of the existing Broker Portal system. Built and maintained market financial analysis models Conducted controlled brainstorming sessions with project focus groups. Analyzed and prioritized user and business requirements that were included while developing the software. Planned and defined system requirements to Use Cases and Test Plans. Conducted JAD sessions with management, SME (Subject Matter Expertise), vendors, users and other stakeholders to develop specifications. Created and managed project templates, use case project templates, requirement types and traceability relationships in Requisite Pro. Authored progress and completion reports, which were submitted to project manager on a weekly basis. Wrote Test Cases and developed strategies with Quality Assurance group to implement them Expertise knowledge of pricing and selling of stocks, bonds, securities, investment assets. Worked as Production Support Lead for the Business Objects Reporting environment. Knowledge in Dimensional Data Modeling with good understanding of Star & Snowflake schemas, fact & dimensional tables Expert at optimizing, debugging and testing SQL Queries and stored procedures written in Oracle & SQL Server Environment: Rational Clear Case, Rational Clear Quest, Rational Rose, MS-Office Suite (Word, PowerPoint, Access, Excel, Outlook), MS Visio, SQL Server. Confidential - Rochester, Minnesota Business Analyst Responsibilities: Gather requirement through various ways including Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions with end users, expert team, Technical Team and stakeholders. Interacted with stakeholders to finalize the Business Requirements Monitored development work and test results and coordinated with Development team, Testing Team for timely completion of projects. Followed a structured approach to organize requirements into logical groupings of essential business process, business rules, information needs and ensured that critical requirements are not missed and provided e-commerce based solutions to their complex business problems. Closely interacted with designers and software developers to understand application functionality and navigational flow and keep them updated about Business user’s sentiments. Standardize documents for agile project implementations. Owned the weekly Burn down charts, Agile wall updates, Tracking Planck cards (a communication protocol between the onsite-offshore agile team members). Liaise across teams- development, project management, business managers and vendors to identify and resolve issues to deliver projects on time in a Microsoft .net/SQL environment. Environment: MS-Office, MS-Outlook, SQL Server, Agile, Window 2000. 