SUMMARY Over 7+ years of diverse experience as Business Analyst in SDLC, technology implementation in diverse industries namely Finance and Healthcare. Experienced in interacting with Stakeholders, User Clients and Developers, while meeting the needs and goals of each parts respectively. Extensive knowledge and robust experience in Agile (Scrum), Waterfall and Waterfall Scrum hybrid and KANNBAN methodologies. Created business rules, business vision document, business glossary and implementation up to functional and technical specifications. Proficient with SQL 2005, Business Intelligence tools, Data Warehousing, ETL processes and OBIEE Excellent skills in Business Analysis, OO Analysis, Data Analysis, Requirement Analysis, Business Modeling and Use Case Development using UML methodology, Project Management Methodologies include RUP, SDLC, and Waterfall. Actively participated in many verification and validation of requirements meetings in conjunction with the stakeholders and presented the results to top executives. Excellent in Business Process Identification and Reengineering. Project experience includes Project Management, Data Mining, customer and user interactions, and leadership responsibilities. Well - versed in using Rational Enterprise Suite’s tool for creating use case diagrams, dataflow diagrams, state diagrams, activity diagrams, flowchart diagrams and collaboration diagrams, Rational Rose. Experience supporting Microsoft Dynamics, BPCS and JDE. Analyze and troubleshoot ERP system issues reported by end users. Experienced in making Test Plans while interacting with quality assurance team and helping them in discrepancy management. Excellent communication and presentation skills. Experience working with business users as well as senior management. Development and Maintenance of documentation using the Departmental templates according to established company guidelines using MS Office Tools including MS Access, MS Visio and MS Project. Skilled at performing GAP analysis, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), SWOT analysis, Cost benefit analysis and ROI analysis. Familiar with testing tools to design and develop test plans and test scripts and good at quickly learning technologies and systems that are organization/project specific. Experienced in developing Test Plans and Test Cases based upon business requirements. Experience with Structured Query Language (SQL). Good understanding of Business Intelligence tools - Business Objects Universe Builder and web Intelligence. Provided technical support to the database team on Oracle based architecting, developed SQL queries for data extraction purpose. Documented the objectives, constraints and scope of the system keeping in mind the changing business requirements. Performed Manual Testing and Automated Testing. Experienced in Analyzing, designing, executing and reviewing new and old Test plans, Test cases, developing and maintaining Test scripts, analyzing bugs etc. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages:  SQL, HTML, XML, C, C++, Java and Visual Basic Script Operating Systems:  Windows XP/95/98/NT/2000, UNIX, LINUX, MAC Databases: Oracle 8i/9i and MS Access, Mysql, Sqlite3. Testing Tools: Quality Centre, QTP, QA Wizard Pro, Test Tracker, Microsoft Dynamics, BPCS and JDE. Business Tools: SQL, MS Visio, MS SharePoint, MS Project, MS Access, MS Office Suite. Business Skills: Business Definition Requirements, Business Process Analysis, Gap Analysis, Use Case Modeling & Analysis, Data Analysis PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, NC Business Analyst Responsibilities: Participated in user meetings, gathered Business requirements & specifications for the Data-warehouse design. Established a business Analysis methodology around the SDLC, helped to develop use cases, project plans and manage scope. Primarily followed the 'Waterfall' methodology in the Software Development Life Cycle, with an overview of 'Agile' model. Involved in the meeting with Business Process Owners, SME (Subject Matter Experts) and store users for Requirement gathering in Definition Stage. Prepared Business Requirement Documents (BRD) based on the gathered requirements Act as the mediator between client and sales team both in a business and technical capacity. Catered to resolving queries from data analysts, client representatives, marketing, and other IT analyst in the product promotion division. Analyze and write test scripts based on functional requirements documents FRD. Designed and implemented basic SQL queries for QA testing and report / data validation. Writing test cases to test the application manually in Quality Center and IBM Rational Manual Tester Performed Unit, Integration, and Regression testing to validate report and mapping functionality. Worked on HR analytics application metrics and generated reports on various functional issues like Compensation, Retention and Turnover trends. Prepared Documentation for OBIEE Repositories and Dashboards designs, test results and standard operating procedures (SOP). Worked with all members of the project team, following the project through the Rational Unified Process (RUP) and ensuring business objectives are met as per the standards and drafted requirements Involved in the development of a Project Plan in conjunction with the Business and IT areas. Substantiation of process workflows, use case diagrams, use case documents and traceability matrix documents. Worked with the Project Manager and senior Business & QA Analysts in defining, documenting and diagramming the business needs. Used the guidelines and artifacts of the Rational Unified Process (RUP) to strategize the Implementation of Rational Unified Process effort in different iterations and phases (Inception, Elaboration, Construction and Transition) the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Prepared Screenshots and web layouts for the application Prepared Test Strategy, Test Plan, test report and Gap Report Performed UAT based on Requirements Document and prepared the Test Cases using Quality Center. Maintained Traceability Matrix in Excel. Environment: Windows XP, Test Tracker, QA Wizard pro, RUP, UML, MS Visio, Oracle11i, MS SharePoint, MS Access,, MS Word, MS Power Point. Confidential, MN Business Analyst Responsibilities: Assisted in formulating testing documents like Test Plans, Test Scripts, requirements Traceability matrix (RTM) and Test summary report. Analyze client requirements and prepare Analysis documents Interact with the requirements Consultants so as to clarify any doubts with respect to the requirements Facilitated JAD/JAR sessions with SME / business users to gather and document requirements. Developed business solutions defining KPIs, reports & dashboards. Developed Test Cases, Facilitated UAT, compiled results, reviewed and discussed with Business to provide signoff for the Clarity Crystal Reports. Supporting the Development and QA (Quality Assurance) team both on and off shore. Determining and implementing the scenarios of STP (Straight Through Processing) in the existing system Substantiation of process workflows, use case diagrams, use case documents and traceability matrix documents. Worked on Agile, Water fall Methodology and Lean in all phases of SDLC and familiar with industry standard best executed automated Analyze business requirements and segregated them into Use case Diagram, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and OOD using Borland together according to UML methodology thus defining data process Experience supporting Microsoft Dynamics, BPCS and JDE. Analyze and troubleshoot ERP system issues reported by end users. Oversee the build, develop and execute unit test programs, support integration testing and facilitate User Acceptance Testing to ensure conformance to design and accuracy of implementation. Gathered requirements from Users of the Clear Quest (CQ) tool for any Enhancements or change request for any defects Perform production readiness assessment, execute production cutover, conduct go-live support and transition client over to internal (or client) support team. Collaborated and negotiated with stakeholders in defining project scope boundaries. Performed GAP Analysis to analyze the current system and worked with internal users to help define system requirements. Helped with data modeling and defining the conceptual and logical model of the data warehouse. Involved with the Test planning, test development and test execution. Responsible for scheduling meetings with users, SME’s and stakeholders to identify problems resolve issues and improve the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution. Have been responsible for discharging basic project management/project Coordination responsibilities Document project related artifacts and send them for Onsite review and store them in the Project database. Assign tasks to the team members keeping in mind the complexity and priority of the tasks. Keep the team motivation and environment high in order to achieve maximum efficiency and productivity Environment: Microsoft Active Directory, Business Objects, ErWin, Rational Tool Suite, MS SQL Server 2000, MS SharePoint, MS Visio, Windows Server 2000, Oracle 8i, Windows NT, MS Excel, UNIX, Sybase, OBIEE, Windows XP Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in development & documentation of Software Requirements Specification (SRS) using Rational Rose. Involved in JAD sessions with business and technical units. Involved in the design and implementation of web based marketing tools. Designed and developed all Use Cases and UML models using MS Visio. Developed Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams. Designed and implemented basic SQL queries for QA testing and report / data validation. Conducted interviews with key business users to collect requirement and business process information. Responsible for defining the scope and business rules of the project, gathering business requirements, and document them textually or using models. Responsible for writing Functional Requirement Specifications (FRS) and User Requirement Specification (URS). Evaluated financial reports, such as income statements, cash flow statements and balance sheets. Experience in EDI automated first-pass claim adjudication, requiring thorough understanding of claim processing, both front and backend operations. Manual testing for checking the data flow of the application using SQL Wrote SQL, PL/SQL Testing scripts for Backend Testing Performed GAP analysis during the conversion process. Involved in preparing flow diagrams for the decision logic using Visio tool. Document project related artifacts and send them for Onsite review and store them in the Project database. Run Migration jobs on mainframes so as to deploy data from Test environment to Production database. Run Provision Compare reports so as to make sure accurate data is migrated across databases. Review tasks and provide input in case needed. Coordinate / Chair team meetings. Environment: IBM Mainframe, DB2, CICS, SAS, Echo, TBA, Middle-Office, HTML, MS Office (PowerPoint), MS Visio, MS Excel 2003. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Assisted in developing Project Proposal, Business Case and Business rules. Gathered business requirements from stakeholders and translate them into detailed requirement specifications. Assisted JAD sessions to identify the business flows and determine whether any current or proposed systems are impacted by the EDI X12 Transaction, Code set and Identifier aspects of HIPAA. Assisted in formulating testing documents like Test Plans, Test Scripts, requirements Traceability matrix (RTM) and Test summary report. Gathered user and business requirements through interviews, surveys and prototyping. Stored and modified requirements in MS Word. Applied Erwin, Rational Rose and Power designer for modeling tools. Involved in defining and scoping the project gathering business requirements and documenting them using Rational Requisite Pro. Created Use cases, Work flows and wire frames for the visualizations of the application meets the business requirements resolve open issue and change request. Analyze As-Is process flow and created a TO-Be state. Conducted Gap risk and cost benefit analysis Analyze business requirements and segregated them into high level and low level Use Cases, activity diagrams using UML methodology thus defining the Data Process Models. Prepared Business Workflow models that cover "How" business processes are accomplished. Provided continuous support to the development team in order to make sure that business requirements are being converted into a desired software product Identified Use Cases from the requirements and wrote Use Case Specifications document. Linked business processes to organizational objectives, identifying opportunities for business process improvement and involved in the performance of cost/benefit analysis. Helped with data modeling and defining the conceptual and logical model of the data warehouse. Understanding the key concepts of SWIFT messaging and the routing rules set up for delivering the trade messages to the providers. Involved in User Acceptance testing (UAT) and validation of the application Environment: SQL Server 2000, Visual Basic, Sybase, Visual Paradigm MS Project, MS excel, MS Word, MS Visio, and MS Power point. 