SUMMARY Senior Business Analyst, with 7+ years of work experience as a Business Analyst and an exceptional record of delivering cost effective, high performance technology solutions to meet challenging business demands, provided in improving business decision making by navigating, automating and developing reporting applications for Finance, Online payments, Merchant Services and Sales systems, assisting sales team in improving processes. Established history of achieving goals through insightful listening, working as a problem solver, active team member and a recognized team lead. Consistently ranked in top quartile on performance reviews. A hard - working team player with extensive knowledge of Unified Modeling Language (UML), Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Business Process Re-engineering (BPR), Testing Lifecycle, Data Modeling, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), GAP analysis, risk analysis, cost-benefit analysis, conducting Joint Application Development Sessions (JAD) and various methodologies including Waterfall, Agile and SCRUM, Prototyping, Six Sigma (DMAIC), Rapid Application Development (RAD) and Rational Unified Process (RUP). Skillfully documented Business Requirements, Use Case Specification, Functional and Non-Functional specification, UML diagrams including Use Case diagram, Activity diagram, Class diagram, Sequence diagram, Data Flow diagram (DFD), Entity-Relationship diagram (ERD), Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), Change-Version Control, Training and User Manuals. Knowledge on web services. Adept in creating Mockups for Widgets especially for Dashboards targeting both web & Mobile platforms. Knowledge on facets. Worked closely with Sales and marketing teams to support CRM projects. Experience and Knowledge of Data Architect, Data Mapping & Modeling to support ETL process (data warehousing) including Dimensional Modeling, Data Cleansing, and Data Quality etc. Hands on experience with PL/SQL, T-SQL for scheduled and ad-hoc reports including use of Stored Procedures, Views, Joins and Triggers Extensive experience in roles such as Project management and Senior Business Analyst with excellent knowledge to the full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies, frame works and processes. Experienced in managing requirements from project inception through release. Good domain knowledge and work experience in Health and Insurance. Expert in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Object Oriented Analysis and Design and Agile Methodology. Experience in JAD Sessions, Live Meetings and Interviews. Knowledge and experience all areas of project life cycle in a highly structured change management environment using both proprietary methodologies, Agile Techniques and RUP. Well versed in project management tools like MS Project for project planning, Project scheduling. Organized JAD sessions to gather requirements at various stages. Good understanding of Project Process and ability to analyze business problems and identify solutions. Worked extensively with the team to meet business requirement, create prototypes and analyze workflow. Experience in dealing with web services, web technology related application and experience in infrastructure design changes. Experienced in creating Business Requirement Documents, User Requirement Specification, and Functional Requirement Specifications. Experienced in creating Data Flow Diagrams, Use Cases, State Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Component Diagrams, Use Case Diagrams & Activity diagrams. Well versed in Process Narratives, Flow charting Techniques using UML, and Good Documentation Practices. Prepared documents to conduct user acceptance testing. Good working experience in all the sprints of the project in SCRUM. Skilled in performing Gap analysis and Impact Analysis by identifying existing technologies, documenting the enhancements to meet the end-state requirements. Extensive understanding of Operations Management and Logistics. Exposure to Change Request Management tools like Clear Quest. Assisted QA team in developing Test Scripts, Test Cases and Test Plans for the User Acceptance testing. Experienced in all areas of project life cycle in a highly structured change management environment using both proprietary methodologies, Agile Techniques and RUP (Rational Unified Process). Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule. Strong Image for dedicated teamwork, high energy, work ethics and commitment with capability to handle new technologies and situations. Team player and self-starter with excellent communication, coordination, documentation, project planning and interpersonal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Business Skills:  Business Process Analysis & Design, Gap Analysis, Impact Analysis, JAD/JRP Sessions, Requirement Management, Technical Specifications, UAT, Defect Management, Test Plan & Test Cases. Models & Artifacts:  BRD(Functional & Technical), SRS, Use Case Modeling, ER & EER Modeling, Dimensional Modeling, DFD, Change-Version Control, Traceability Matrices, Project Charter, Context Diagram, STLC Methodologies:  Agile, Scrum, RUP, CMM, CMMI, Six-Sigma, Prototyping and Waterfall Languages:  COBOL, C#.NET, JAVA, T-SQL, PL/SQL, HTML and XML Tools: MS Visio, Balsamiq Mockup, IBM Rational Rose, Requisite Pro, ClearQuest, ClearCase, HP Quality Center, Win Runner, Microsoft office Suite, MS SharePoint, MS Lync, JIRA, TFS Database:  Oracle, DB2, MS SQL Server, SSMS, SQL Developer, ERWin, Toad Environment: s: Windows, AS/400, Solaris, Android, Linux, Unix PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Business Analyst Confidential, Oak Brook, IL Responsibilities: As EIM Implementation Coordinator, directed implementation and change management activities for the Department of Developmental Services (DDS) and the Department of Mental Health (DMH), supporting the implementation of Enterprise Invoice Management (EIM). Gathered Requirements to overcome the problems of existing system, and created a Business Requirement Document. Conducted interviews with the SME and gathered information about Health care Enrollment, Billing and Claims processing. The user interface (UI) screens were mocked up in Microsoft Visio and reviewed with the end users prior to programming to solicit User Acceptance. Ensured that project followed Business Rules and was in compliance with HIPAA rules to display minimum benefit information and others. Worked with end users to define business design solutions (e.g. new workflows, systems, programs, reports). Created Report Mockups and Sample Mapping documents for the Error Reporting. Created flow charts describing how to use the new system. Participated in daily standup meetings and owned daily milestones to gather and create reporting specifications. Created UAT plans with several test cases for each project to ensure that the system runs smoothly after the proposed enhancements. Coordinated between business line, operations and the technical team throughout the project. Facilitated and scribed JAD sessions, user meetings, and interviews to extract business requirements to confirm that those requirements are in alignment with the expected results. Gathered requirements for impacted system and business areas and their needs to embrace the changes. Created T-SQL statements, stored procedures to query the custom claims OLAP & OLTP databases. Environment: Agile, SQL Server, Windows XP, Rational Rose, Rational Requisite Pro, QTP, UML, MS Visio, MS Project, MS Office (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint), MS SharePoint Business Analyst Confidential, Simi Valley, CA Responsibilities: Proficiently documented detailed design analysis and requirements according to corporate standards and IT Best Practices on Claims application and Loss reporting system that catered to customers, agents and claims representatives needs Proactively worked with special investigations officers' to elicit business requirements on designing their work queue with supporting artifacts such as process models, and UML diagrams Monitored the company's Sales force CRM application; Created workflows for automated lead routing, escalation and email alerts Hands on experience in creating Profiles, Roles based on Organization role hierarchy and implemented Record - Level and Field-Level security and configured the sharing settings Worked with business to define email templates to be used for various approval process email notifications and escalation emails Based on user stories, defined the custom objects and relationships that needed to be set up for Insurance policy and carrier objects; worked with business to define a custom lead scoring module in Sales force using Custom objects, visual force pages, batch apex, outbound messages Translated Insurance Agents' specific business requirements to functional specifications with mock-screens, and work flow sequence diagrams to aid the effective development & enhancement of disparate reporting process Accountable as key analysis resource for web applications that involve lines of business such as Auto, Homeowners, Commercial property and Marine to provide expertise and possible solutions to resolve IT application related business needs Partnered with Technical team, System Architects, Application Developers and Quality analysts for successful planning and implementation of the project within established timeline and supported user acceptance testing with the business users and other test events Prioritized multiple work activities regularly and provided status reports consisting project goals and accomplishments of every project to the managers Proactively involved in software development lifecycle such as applications development, logical design, and software/data design and standards Environment: MS-PowerPoint, MS-Excel, MS-Word, MS Visio, Siebel 8, Oracle, Salesforce.com & QC Business Data Analyst Confidential, Irving, TX Responsibilities: Eliciting, documenting / detailing functional, non functional/ supplemental requirements, business rules/web intelligence rules from users, existing systems for the evolving applications. Assigned tasks among development team monitored and tracked progress of project following agile methodology. Facilitated Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions. Gathered requirements using interviews, document analysis, requirements workshops, storyboards and surveys Participated in creating E-R diagrams and class diagrams during the central repository implementation phase. Gathered requirements for the reporting system which was based on the central repository Performed risk management for identifying, analyzing and managing existing and expected risks in the project by creating Risk Management and Response Action Plan Identifying external, internal Interfaces, data exchange points ECM and EDW requirements, work items, hand-offs, compliance rules, financial report requirements and documenting/managing deliverables. Creating/Updating Use Cases, activity diagrams, class diagrams, data Models/ data flow diagrams. Created and executed SQL queries (using Rapid SQL and MS Access) and scripts to validate data movement and generate expected results for UAT. In depth analyses of data report was prepared weekly, biweekly, monthly using MS Excel, SQL & UNIX Eliciting requirements for relational databases, batch processing systems and various reports. Writing User Acceptance Test Cases from requirements and managing them in Mercury Quality Center. Test defect tracking in Quality Center and coordinating bug remediation. Managing, version controlling, distributing project documents, release review decks via SharePoint. Process measurement (metrics), process monitoring, process simulation, process improvement. Training users, peers on various deliverables, process steps/methodologies, tools, applications. Jr. Business System Analyst Confidential, Chicago, IL Responsibilities: Created Business Requirement Document and Functional Requirement Document (FRD) Elicited business requirements from clients and translated them into functional specifications and assisted in technical design Created and implemented business partner feedback mechanisms Created Use Cases to make developers understand the requirements in more easy way Contributed to the creation of business plans (including business cases) to assure plans meet company goals Integrated business plans with technical programs and project plans Served as liaison between architects, developers and designers, and with internal business partner and/or vendor companies Provided technical/functional assistance in identifying, evaluating and developing systems and procedures that are cost effective and meet user requirements Served in a consultant role in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) models Lead cross-functional teams to address business or systems issues Actively involved in updating internal processes (submit claims, check eligibility), updating data collection and data reporting Supported team by assisting with functionality questions, testing, and implementation Conducted technical/non-technical presentations to the management and training workshops for the clients.