SUMMARY Over 7 years of experience working as a Software Quality Assurance Tester as both Manual and Automation tester. Extensive experience in testing of client - server, web- based application and backend testing. Expert in designing and developing Test plans, Test cases and Test reports for Manual and Automated testing. Solid understanding and working experience working on AGILE methodology and involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC). Expert in manual testing using user interface and proficient in Regression Testing, User Acceptance Testing, and experience in Bug Tracking. Solid understanding ofhigh-level languages like C# and Java. Strong experience with Selenium WebDriver on creating C# or Java test scripts for Black Box Testing and White Box Testing. Strong experience testing API and web services in a manual and automation approach. Experience working on Behavior Driven Development (BDD) using tools like Specflow and Cucumber using Gherkin. Expert in integrating Automation scripts (Selenium WebDriver API) on Continuous Integration tools Jenkins for the nightly batch run of the Script. Proficient in using SoapUI/Postman for testing Web Services/API and used various types of assertions such as soap fault, Contains, XPath, etc. Well versed in different management scenarios like Change Control, Quality Assurance, Defect Tracking, System Integration, and Task Scheduling. Testing the Functionalities using Black Box testing technique. Excellent knowledge and working experience in test execution and test results analysis. Experience in writing and executing SQL queries on databases for backend testing. Excellent skills in written and verbal communication with the client, project manager, and developers. Possess strong technical aptitude with strong analytical, problem-solving and communication skills. Excellent interpersonal skills, proven team player with an analytical bent to problem-solving and delivering under high-stress environment. Solid experience with bug/defect tracking tools like Team Foundation Server (TFS) and JIRA. Quick learner with strong Analytical and Problem-Solving skills, Multi-Tasking abilities and proven experience in utilizing process knowledge of various technologies and domains. Excellent team player with excellent interpersonal and communication skills. Demonstrated ability to self-motivate and be flexible within a fast-paced environment. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver, JUnit, TestNG, QTP, HP Quality Center/ALM, Postman, Soap UI, Specflow, Cucumber, TFS, Jira Languages: C#, Java, HTML, CSS, XML, SQL Web Debugging Tool: XPath, Fire Path, Firebug IDE and Tools: Visual Studio, Eclipse, IntelliJ, SSMS, Maven Continuous Integration Tools: Jenkins, Bamboo Methodologies: Agile-Scrum, Waterfall, TDD, BDD, DDD Defect Tracking Tools: TFS, Jira, Quality Center Databases: SQL Server, MS Access, My SQL, Oracle Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, LINUX PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Peterborough, NH SDET/ QA Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Found critical bugs in the application, weekly Reporting through Bug Reports and Maintenance Traceability Matrix. Executed Test Cases, logged defects, developed Test Defect Reports and Escalated issues. Participated in use-case reviews, authored, and reviewed test planning artifacts. Provided an aggregated, cross-application project view of quality status and defect trends and managed and enforce consistent workflows and processes. Involved in preparation of test cases and test scenarios from the requirement document. Participated in the implementation and upgrade of the client/server and web-based applications. Developed Test Plan, Test Cases/Test Scripts and reviewed baselining of scripts with different Data sets as input. Responsible for Executing and Maintenance of Automated and Manual Test scripts. Developed and maintained Manual and Automation test scripts. Involved in the Database Testing using SQL queries of the Application such as checking all the tables in the Database and checking whether the data is moving in their respective tables. Automated regression test suite using in house automation framework based on C#/ Selenium. Set up Selenium tools from scratch and configured various other peripherals tools to perform Selenium test. Performed functionality and regression testing during the various phases of the application using Selenium. Validate Web services/APIs built in SOA Architecture using SOAPUI. Was able to obtain performance requirements and estimate work effort needed to complete assigned tasks. Involved in generating test plan, test cases and executing test cases. Environment: C#, Selenium, Windows, SQL, .NET, Visual Studio, JSON, XML, MS Excel, SOAP UI. Confidential, NY, NY SDET/ Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Created Test plans, managed team members, assigned tasks and conducted meetings. Follow Agile Methodology for all the phases of SDLC and interacted with Lead, Business Analyst, Developers and other QA Members during Daily Stand-Up Meeting. Actively involved in all stages of STLC (Software Testing Life Cycle). Created and maintained test plan, test cases and automation test documents. Extensively automated Regression and Functional test suites by developing test cases and test suites using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and Java. Work on software Verification and Validation manually and use Assertions for automation. Created checkpoints and synchronization points in the application to deal with timing problems. Involved in Web Services/REST API Testing using Postman and also automated the web services testing. Tested compatibility of application for dynamic and static content under various cross browsers using HTML IDs and XPath in Selenium. Created BDD based automation test frameworks using Cucumber. Identified, developed and reviewed systematic procedure for each test cases after going through the documents provided. Wrote Gherkin language test case scenarios in a feature file using Cucumber. Involved in extensive data validation, back-end testing and querying the database using SQL queries. Used Jira to open bugs, create tasks and user stories, initiate change requests. Maintained Traceability Matrix to track the requirements to the test cases to ensure complete test coverage in the Jira. Effectively Communicated testing status to QA lead, project managers, and teams who are involved in User Acceptance Testing. Environment: Java, TestNG, Postman, Windows, Gherkin, Cucumber, BDD, SQL Server, Agile, API, Jira, Selenium WebDriver Confidential, Mill Valley CA Quality Assurance Analyst Responsibilities: Actively involved in all stages of STLC (Software Testing Life Cycle). Developed test code in C# language using Visual Studio IDE and Nunit framework. Extensively automated Regression and Functional test suites by developing test cases and test suites using Selenium WebDriver and C#. Work on software Verification and Validation manually and use Assertions for automation. Performed Behavior Driven Development/BDD testing using Specflow and Gherkin. Responsible for creating the functional testing framework using NUnit and using Selenium WebDriver to automate the UI components. Used Selenium WebDriver used to test search results of Meta search engine. Involved in Web Services and API Testing using Postman. Tested application using BDD framework with Specflow and Gherkin language. Tested compatibility of application for dynamic and static content under various cross browsers using HTML IDs and XPath in Selenium. Identified, developed and reviewed systematic procedure for each test case after going through the documents provided. Involved in extensive data validation, back-end testing and querying the database using SQL queries. Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS) to open bugs, create tasks and user stories, initiate change requests. Maintained Traceability Matrix to track the requirements to the test cases to ensure complete test coverage in the TFS. Effectively Communicated testing status to QA lead, project managers, and teams who are involved in User Acceptance Testing. Environment: Selenium Webdriver, C#, Specflow, Visual Studio, Web Services, RESTful, TFS, SQL Server Confidential, Arlington TX QA Analyst Responsibilities: Developed test cases for various scenarios based upon requirements, designs and specifications. Attended daily Scrum Meetings with the Team Lead and Developers and executed daily tasks based on the Agile Methodology. Developed and executed Test Suites and Test Scripts based on the requirement documents and using Test Manager. Executed test cases manually and verified actual results against expected results. Detected, Reported and Tracked bugs using Test manager. Performed Sanity, Functional, Negative, Regression, System, Integration, End to End and Backend testing. Participated in requirements reviews, design reviews, test plan and test case review. Worked with Jira for version control, source-control, bug reporting and project documents. Updated regression test cases in Selenium WebDriver using Java programming language. Modified test plans in accordance with changing requirements. Automated UI test cases using Selenium Webdriver, Java and different frameworks like Behavior Driven Development (BDD), TDD, DDD. Used Cucumber for writing gherkin language scenarios. Created and executed SQL statements to verify the data in the backend. Utilized Test Manager for managing software testing process including planning tests, executing tests, defect tracking and reporting. Tested web services and api using Postman. Developed and executed SQL joins to validate the results in Web Services and Front end with Database. Handled High severity issues on priority. Responsible for weekly status updates showing the progress of the testing effort and open issues to be resolved. Environment: Java, Selenium Webdriver, Postman, Jira, Maven, Cucumber, SQL, MS Excel, Agile Confidential, San Antonio TX Quality Analyst Responsibilities: Worked in Agile methodology with SDLC. Created test cases, executing, recording results. Conducted integration test, platform certification testing. Created automated test scripts by modifying the existing functions. Conducted regression test, by using the automated scripts for QTP. Created test data with the help of python tool. Conducted benchmark testing for performance for each Sprint. Created performance graphs for each Sprint. Environment: QTP, Quality Center, SQL Server, Agile Methodology (Scrum/Sprint) 