SUMMARY 8 years of experience in analyzing, reviewing and understanding Business/Functional requirements and skilled in writing Test Plan, Test Strategy, Test Scripting, creating Test Scenarios, analyzing and preparing result summary reports. Experience in both Manual and Automation testing. Expertise in developing, documenting, and executing test cases manually as well as generating automated scripts for TDD, BDD, API Testing using Selenium, Cucumber, SoapUI while serving clients in various domains such as Healthcare, Banking, Retail and Insurance. Understanding of different Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like Agile & Water - fall. Developed Test Plan, Test case, Test Scripts based on the Business Requirement and Functional Specification Document. Expertise in automating the software-testing environment with open-source tools likeSelenium IDE,WebDriver andFirebug. Developed/maintainedTest Cases, Black Box testing, Defect trackingandreporting for both Manual and Automated Test environments. Expertise in Functional, Regression, UAT and Black Box testing. Experience in writing and modifyingTestNG/ JUnit test cases. Extensive use of the defect-tracking tool like Rally/JIRA has also used GitHub for version control of testing files and used Jenkins to create and run jobs. Having Very good experience in automating Restful API Services using Apache HTTP Client, TestNG and Apache POI and manually testing Restful API Services using Postman. Proficient with all levels of testing including Functional Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing, Data Driven Testing & User Acceptance Testing. Basic noledge of Appium. Practical noledge of writing SQL Queries. Strong noledge of Testing including Java, XML, JavaScript, HTML. Proficient in using Microsoft Word and Excel. Quick learner, hard worker, self-driven, result-oriented, able to meet deadlines and multi-tasks during project execution TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Selenium IDE, Selenium RC, Selenium Grid, JUnit, Cucumber, SoapUI. Methodologies: Agile (Scrum), Waterfall, SDLC, STLC. Web Services: SOAPUI, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP, RESTFUL Services, Postman, Apache HTTP Client SOA Technologies: SOAP, WSDL, RESTful web services, SOAP UI Languages: Java, HTML, XML Build Tools: Ant, Maven Testing Frameworks: Data Driven, Page Object Model(POM), TestNG IDEs: Eclipse, SOAP UI, IntelliJ Version Control Tools: SVN, GitHub Bug Tracking tools: Jira, Quality Center Test build, Integration Tools: Maven, ANT, Jenkins, SVN, Git Databases: SQL, MySQL. Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Mac, UNIX PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, San Jose, CA QA Engineer Responsibilities: Collaborated with product management teams in an agile environment to develop a comprehensive set of tests for web-based applications. Analyzed the system requirements, developed detailed test plans, test cases, and provided the documentation. Configured Selenium Web Driver, TestNG, and created selenium automation scripts in java coding using TestNG. Involved in creation of automation framework in Selenium Web Driver using data driven and Page object driven approach. Used Jenkins tool for continuous integration of the builds. Used Maven tool for the Project management and for the purpose of compile, run, deploy and to add external dependencies. Performed Functional and Regression testing by automated using Selenium, TestNG, Maven, and Jenkins. Developed and executed test cases and automation regression testing using Selenium Web Driver. Tested application compatibility for dynamic and static content under various cross browsers using HTML IDs and XPath in Selenium. Performed REST API Testing using Apache Http Client for REST web APIs. Developed and maintained test documentation including test plans, test cases, and test data. Develop test cases for functional and regression testing. Conducted UI testing, functional testing, and database testing. Retest defect fixes and reopen issues when needed. Worked with Developers, Business analysts and Project managers to determine requirements (Test Cases, Test Data). Used SQL Queries to verify the data from the Oracle database Environment: Selenium Web Driver 2, Agile, Java, CSS, HTML, XML, Eclipse, JIRA, TestNG, Restful API testing, Apache HTTP Client, JAXB, Jackson, XML, JSON, Jenkins, XPath, Firebug/ Firepath, JXL, Log4j, Oracle, SQL, Firebug. Confidential, Los Angeles, CA Test Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in all stages of Software Development Life cycle and Software Testing Lifecycle using Agile and Scrum methodologies. Interacted with business and development teams for requirements and test scenarios reviews. Analyzed user stories and participated in Sprint planning, Review Sessions & Scrum Meetings and developed Test scenarios, Test cases, Test data, Test reports. Developed and Executed Test Scripts using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, analyzed Test Results. Involved in preparing test cases using Selenium WebDriver to validate all UI components, Popups, Browser navigations, Mouse Movements. Used Firebug, Firepath to debug, edit and locate the objects based on ID, Name, XPath, CSS Selector, Link, Partial Link, Attributes and Tags. Experience in Drag and Drop, Scroll Down, Double Click, Check Boxes using Selenium Web Driver. Used Apache POI to read excel data files. Used Data Driven Framework and extracted data from external Excel files loaded into the variables in the scripted code. Wrote test cases to handle Popups windows and Alerts using WebDriver and Alert interface class. Took the Application Screenshots and copied the images whenever exceptions occurred and at important checkpoints of application execution. Performed Parallel and Cross Browser testing on different browsers like Internet Explorer, Chrome, Safari and Firefox where multiple tests run at the same time using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG. Involved in Web services testing using SOAPUI Tool. Validated request and response XML. Added assertions to validate the XML in Web services SOAP and RESTFUL service. Verified the integration of various components in the application and executed end-to-end testing. Experience in Manual and Automation testing. Managed the framework dependency jars using Maven. Used GitHub the version control system as a source repository. Participated in Release Review/Requirement Analysis and Design review meetings. Environment: Selenium Web driver, Maven, TestNG, Jenkins, HTML, XML, JIRA, Cucumber, Eclipse, JUnit, Agile, Git, Web Services, SOAP UI, WSDL, Oracle, SQL, Linux, Windows. Confidential, Buffalo, NY Software Test Engineer Responsibilities: Worked closely with the Requirements team and analyzed the Use cases and followed AGILE/ SCRUM methodology. Interacted with the Project Manager, Business Analysts and Developers to understand the application design and functional specifications. Worked in creation, preparation, and conduct of quality assurance reviews and contributed to the development and execution of test plans and test scripts. Implemented Data Driven automation test framework with Selenium WebDriver, Java and TestNG. Used Firebug and Firepath for element identification while creating Page Object Repository. Performed Cross browser compatibility testing on Chrome, Firefox, IE browsers using TestNG. Worked on Selenium GUI Object / element verification is done through XPath, CSS locators. Implemented Page Object Model Automation framework with Java, Selenium WebDriver. Involved in writing and executing the Test Cases and Test Suites using Java and Selenium WebDriver. Created and executed automated test scripts using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and Database as source of Test Data. Executed test cases and participated actively in System Integration Testing, and Regression Testing. Used SoapUI to test the SOAP and RESTful services. Used Jenkins tool for continuous integration of the builds. Captured the error screenshots and created test reports generated out of TestNG. Interacted with the Development team and the Environment team in prioritizing the defect list and validating non bug fixes. Found Defects, prepared Defect Reports and Status Reports, Defect tracking using Jira. Shared Daily Status Reports with all the team members, Team Leads, Managers and Clients. Conducted backend testing using SQL queries to validate data for database and Used SQL queries for retrieving data from database for executing user specific test cases. Used GitHub the version control system as a source repository to share code. Environment: Java, Selenium Web driver, Maven, TestNG, Jenkins, HTML, XML, JIRA, Eclipse, TestNG, Agile, Git, Web Services, SOAP UI, WSDL, Oracle, SQL, Linux, Windows. Confidential QA Engineer Responsibilities: Analyzed the system requirements and created test plan, test scripts and test scenarios for various modules of the application. Participated in all phases of the Software Testing Life Cycle(STLC) Performs Manual and Automation testing. Involved in the design and development of test plan from business and Functional requirements which includes test objectives, test strategies, test environments etc. Actively involved infunctional, system, integration, positive, negative,GUItesting of the application. Created test cases using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and MAVEN. Interacted with developers and business users to communicate the defects and actively participated in replicating the bugs and performed regression testing using JIRA. UsedSoapUIto test web services. Worked with developers to Create and update the defects, resolve and track their status usingQC. Worked on cross platform (OS and Web browser) testing. Created test reports generated out of TestNG and captured the error screenshots. Interacted with the Development team and the Environment team in prioritizing the defect list and validating non bug fixes. Found Defects, prepared Defect Reports and Status Reports, Defect tracking using QC. Shared Daily Status Reports with all the team members, Team Leads, Managers and Clients. Used Jenkins tool for continuous integration of the builds. Environment: Selenium Web driver, TestNG, Eclipse, HTML,SoapUI, Maven, Jenkins, SoapUI, QC. Confidential Associate Test Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) the project was developed using Waterfall, Agile Methodology. Understanding the Business requirements, Application and function specifications, Design documents. Involved in writing and designing templates for theTest PlansandTest cases. Involved in Preparation of Test Scenarios and review of Test Cases. Involved in updating and executing test cases as per requirements. Identified theTest Casesand documented them inQuality Center. PerformedGUI, Functional,Negative,Positive,Regression andUser Acceptance Testing. Prepared various reports based on different stages of Testing. Updated Reports and dashboards to display the status of test coverage including the number of test cases passing, failing or pending. Interacted with developers, users and various members of the team to discuss issues, resolve defects and set priorities. Involved in Managerial Meetings and attended various conference calls at different levels from QA, Developers and Clients. Environment: Java, Windows, Quality Center, HTML, CSS, MS Office. 