SUMMARY 8 years of experience in Software Testing, Software Release Management and Quality Improvement Processes with 2+ years of experience as SDET Engineer. Expertise in developing Test Cases, Test Plans, and Automation test scripts using Selenium, Cucumber BDD, API testing using SoapUI, Mobile testing using Appium, Angular testing with Protractor, Continuous Integration using Jenkins & current QA methodologies serving various domains such as Insurance, Agriculture, E - commerce, HealthCare and Finance. Worked on various open source tools such as Selenium WebDriver, Selenium RC, Selenium Grid, Selenium IDE, TestNG, Cucumber, Appium, Protractor, JAVA, Jenkins, Maven, JUnit, Web Applications, SoapUI, JIRA, SQL. Worked in various domains such as Insurance, Healthcare, Agriculture, E-commerce and Finance. Develop critical metrics for effectively measuring and managing test deliverables and processes. The proficient incomplete testing process of a given software application for different software releases, includes creation of test plans, test cases/test scripts by maintaining Quality procedures and standards to meet client's requirements and expectations. Experienced with Review meetings to identify Ambiguities in functional requirements. Experience in Requirement analysis, Project effort estimation, Resource planning, monitoring the progress of the activities and application reviewing. Closely worked with the developer and the other testers to solve any technical and end user issues. Strong expertise in Agile with SCRUM lifecycles. Experienced in all the stages of theSDLC(Software Development Life Cycle). Expertise in Defect Management/ Problem Solving, including tracking bugs, reporting using Rally, JIRA, Quality Center and Bugzilla. Used various Selenium Locators like ID, name, Link Text, Partial Link Text, XPath, CSS for identifying correct GUI elements in creating automation scripts. Validated various test scripts using Assert and Verify commands. Well acquainted with Selenium Synchronization Techniques like Implicit, Explicit, Fluid Waits in the WebDriver. Expertise in using different Navigation Commands and managing web-based popups using Alerts. Executed automation scripts on different browsers/environments by executing tests in parallel through Selenium Grid, for cloud testing used Sauce Labs and reported defects/results to the team. Possess qualitative experience in testing on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA Testing) and JUnit testing, along with providing technical support assistance to developers in troubleshooting. Possess the expert level of understanding of WSDL, WADL, XSD, Schema, DTD, and XML documents for Web Services Testing using SoapUI. Actively involved in implementing, testing frameworks Keyword Driven, Data Driven, Hybrid and Page Object Model (POM) using Selenium. Established a working rapport with business partners to take a more ATDD approach. 100% Automation of Business scenarios-Decreasing testing time significantly. Proven ability in developing BDD scripts with Cucumber and writing step definitions, features in Gherkin. Good knowledge of API testing to ensure functionality, reliability, performance, and security of API’s. Utilized SQL for test setup and data validation on Oracle, SQL Server databases also handled the tasks of designing and managing SQL Queries, Stored Procedure's and cursors and performed Database testing. Designed and used Automation Test Frameworks (Hybrid-POM and Data Driven) and involved in the development of the Singleton Design Pattern from scratch. Strong understanding of Testing Data Provider annotation to configure multiple data sets to implement Data Driven Testing in WebDriver. An Inculcated Apache POI API with Selenium WebDriver to read and write data from Microsoft Excel. Perform as a hands-on tester and performed in-depth Data Driven Testing to simulate complex business scenarios in a test environment. Trained and mentored offshore team on automation best practices and methods to improve reusability for regression testing. Hands on experience in using build and project management tolls like Ant, MAVEN. Responsible for developing the scripts to support Jenkins (Continuous Integration) of the scripts to the build server Involved in End to End Testing of Angular 2 application using Jasmine and Protractor. Produced Quality Center and Excel metrics/reports from the scheduled execution test run. Used Appium for testing Native and Web Mobile Apps using Real Devices, Emulators, Simulators on IOS and Android platforms. Worked closely during the Requirements Gathering Phase with business and Development Departments to adequately define the testing scope for projects. Interpreted and converted manual test cases into automation Smoke and Regression Suites in Selenium Web driver in Java. Maintained the Selenium JAVA automation code and resources in source controls like CVS, SVN, GIT over, the time for improvements and new features and resolved conflicts while merging source code to trunk or with other branches in the same. Ability to work under tight deadlines and rapidly changing priorities and handle multiple projects simultaneously with a limited timeframe release cycle. Proficient knowledge in various types of software Testing such as Usability Testing (UT), Smoke Testing, Sanity Testing, Positive and Negative Testing, Data Driven Testing, Regression Testing, Unit Testing, black box testing, white box testing and Integrated Testing. Delivered thorough QA testing reportsthat determined product quality and release readiness using TestNG and JUnit reporting. Proficient in Defect analysis, performing Verification using walkthroughs, reviews, inspections also, performed Validation activities using smoke, regression, functional, systems and UAT testing. Generated test logs using Log4j for various log levels. Reviewed and transformed Business and User Story requirement documentation and created wireframes for stakeholder approval. Efficient in reformulating strategies through Process Re-engineering, Change Management, Release Management, Process Improvements and UAT Testing. Coordinated with developers and worked on bugs until they are resolved. I Traced Requirements throughout the development process and verifying adherence using the Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM). Ensure content and structure of all Testing documents / artifacts are maintained. Track and report upon testing activities, including testing results, test case coverage, required resources, defects discovered and their status, performance baselines, etc. Holds strong ability to handle multiple tasks, prioritize workload and work independently as well as in a team. Dynamic team player who is consistently motivated toward success and completion of projects with an ability to work independently. TECHNICAL SKILLS Test Approaches: SDLC, STLC, Bug Life Cycle, Waterfall, Agile/Scrum Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver, Selenium IDE, Selenium RC, Selenium Grid, TestNG, JUnit, Cucumber, Gherkin, Protractor, SoapUI, QC, Appium, Appium Desktop Test Build & Integration Tools: Maven, ANT, Jenkins Frameworks: Data Driven, Keyword Driven, Hybrid, Page Object Model (POM) Programming Tools: JAVA, JavaScript, Angular JS, VB Script, Gherkin, SQL, C, C++ Markup Languages: HTML, XML, XPath, CSSSelector Databases: MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server, NoSQL Browsers: Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, Safari, Opera Operating Systems: Windows 7/8/10, Ubuntu, UNIX, LINUX, Android, IOS Defect Tracking Tools: HP Quality Center, JIRA, RALLY. MS Office Tools: Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, MS Access Utilities: Eclipse, GIT, SVN, Firebug, Fire Path, IntelliJ Mobile testing tools: Perfecto Mobile, Appium PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Software Development Engineer in Test(SDET) Confidential, Boston, MA Responsibilities: Primary duties include System, Integration, Regression and Data testing for D2L (Desire to Learn) application in an Agile development environment, to include execution, defect tracking, reporting and test team coordination. Secondary duties Process Integration/Interaction, JIRA project setup and maintenance (import test cases, create test cycles, execution, dashboard reporting) and interfacing directly with the end client Worked closely with Product team, Designers and Developers to ensure application development meets requirements & user's expectations. Excellent understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Development Engineer in Test(SDET), Defect life cycles(DLC) and Test Strategies from project definition to post-deployment. Evaluated & Reviewed user stories and participated in Sprint planning, Review Sessions & Scrum Meetings and developed Test scenarios, Test cases, Test data, Test procedures, Test reports. Performed testing of the batch job that expression uses to provide comprehensive set of components for insurance policy documents assembling and output. Used JDBC to save and retrieve the policy pdf files using the policy database. Created automation framework and test scripts using JavaScript, Selenium WebDriver, Java, Selenium Grid, Cucumber, Maven and executed the test scripts. Continuously improved automation test suite to match development life cycle. Understanding with coding in Java, C++, HTML, CSS, JavaScript. Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC. Created Generic functions that deal with different sets of data. Created Test Plan and wrote Test cases for each sprint. Involved in developing of Data driven framework with Page Object Model to test the web application and used Maven build tool to implement the framework dependency jar files. Used GIT-hub repository as a source repository system to share code within the office as well as with the team in overseas and stored the framework and all the developed test cases. Performed Cross Browser and parallel testing to test whether the web applications are working as desired in different browsers and environments using TestNG. Implemented TestNG in Grouping of Test Cases, Test Methods and Test Suites for regression and functional testing using the TestNG annotations like Groups, Parameter, Data Provider. Took the application Screenshots and copied the images whenever exceptions occurred and at important checkpoints of application execution. Used Apache POI to read data from Excel sheet. Performed cross-browser testing for the web interface and mobile application using Selenium WebDriver Identified the Elements usingAppiumInspector on Android as well as IOS platforms. Configuring theAppiumfor the Mobile IOS. Used Appium Desktop based Appium Server and Appium Inspector. Performed continuous integration of code and scripts using Jenkins, Maven and TestNG. Configured and launched builds using Jenkins jobs and analyzed the Test Results from Jenkins UI. Implemented TestNG automation framework for Smoke Test to ascertain that the crucial functions of the application work. Used Jasmine and Protractor for End to End Testing of Angular2 application. Performed Integration and Regression Testing to check compatibility of new functionality with the existing functionalities of the application and executed end-to-end testing. Achieved Synchronization between test scripts execution and application using Implicit waits and Explicit waits. Handled automation framework code re-factoring to support test suites reusable. Actively participated in code reviews to increase test coverage. Performed Database testing, scripted SQL queries to verify data integrity and validate updated data for the Test cases in different modules of the application. Performed functional testing of SOAP and REST Web Services using SoapUI. Validated request and response XML. Added assertions to validate the XML in Web services SOAP and RESTFUL service Performed BDD (Behavior Driven Development), ATDD (Acceptance Test Driven Development) using Cucumber Features, Scenarios and Step Definitions in Gherkins format. Experience in doing automation testing for Mobile application using Appium tool. Segregated defects based on the hierarchy of the effects on the test scripts using Log4j using its components like loggers and appenders. Involved in Weekly Status Meetings with development and management Teams. Involved in Product Backlog, Sprint Planning, Sprint backlog, Daily Scrum Calls, Sprint demo, Retrospective Meetings. Provided support to the client during UAT and regularly involved in client communication. Interacted with the Development team and the Environment team in prioritizing the defect list and validating known bug fixes. Worked closely with onsite team and worked on needed enhancements to the legacy platform. Reported the test result using the output in excel files, TestNG reports, XSLT reports and Cucumber JVM reports. Accessed Share point for all the report. Interaction with Business Analysts and Developers to resolve the technical issues to meet the client's requirement for a better-quality software product. Experience in handling team and coordinating team with Offshore (Direct/manage). Served as QA resource during launches to the production environment. Participated in concept and requirements definition meetings; provided feedback for functional and technical design documents. Produced QA Level of Effort estimates and QA release schedules for projects. Identified and documented product risks and project risks, and the severity and impact of those risks. Well versed in Rally Agile - For Plan, Add User Stories, Add Task, Create Test Cases, Create Defects, Iterations. Followed Sprint Burn Down Chart, Release Burn Down Chart and attended Agile Sprint Meeting. Worked in high-pressure environments adhering to product quality standards and delivery dates. Stay abreast of new test methods and tools. A versatile team player coupled with excellent interpersonal and communication skills. Environment: Selenium IDE, Selenium WebDriver, Apache POI, Java, HTML, CSS, X-path, SQL, Maven, SOAPUI, Appium, Cucumber, Protractor, TestNG, XML, Log 4j, Share point, Agile, Rally, Jenkins. Senior Agile QA Automation Tester Confidential, Atlanta, GA Responsibilities: Involved in SDET environment and contributing at various levels of testing processes/cycles, including Test automation, in ensuring the highest level of quality. Involved in Agile testing, reviewed the stories and participated in Daily Scrum and Release Planning meeting. Reviewed the Product Backlog, Functional Specifications Document and Technical Documentation. Involved in all phases of the Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Experienced in preparing the Software Test Plan which includes, analyzing requirements during the requirements analysis phase of projects using JIRA. Also, wrote System Test Procedures and conducted lab dry runs to maintain their accuracy per the latest software release. Segregated automatable and non-automatable Test cases. In depth understanding of Object Oriented Programming and skilled in selenium developing automated test scripts. Used Firebug, Fire Path to debug, edit and locate the objects based on ID, Name, XPath, CSS Selector, Link, Partial Link, Attributes and Tags. Used Selenium WebDriver and TestNG to run paralleltesting by creating Groups, and categorizing test cases. Developed Hybrid/Data Driven Framework from scratch and extracted data from external Excel files using Apache POI to get data external sources and provide them as parameter to the locators in the test script. Test Suites, Test Cases & Test Data Sets were configured to perform or skip the execution and wrote the test results Passed/Failed/Skipped to the output files. Used Desired Capabilities and Remote WebDriver in the Selenium Grid for performing Cross Platform Testing, Cross Browser Testing. Performed System, Integration, Smoke, Sanity, Functional, End to End, Positive and Negative testing and monitored the behavior of the applications during different phases of testing using testing methodologies. Expertise in accessing Forms, Links, Tables using Selenium WebDriver. Created test automation framework from scratch using Cucumber with Page Object Model (POM) using Java language. Developed User Stories using Java in Behavior Driven Development for User Acceptance Testing. Involved in developing Integration Test Plans, System Test Plans and Performance Test Plans for the applications. Performed Regression testing after each build release of the application and updated the scripts by executing the Regression suites built usingSeleniumand approve for Regression Suite. Expertise in handling List Boxes, Dropdown Menus, Mouse Actions, Frames, synchronization and all types of Pop-Ups using Selenium. Configured Jenkins built job for Continues Integration and for Regression Testing. Used JUnit and TestNG as testing framework, and Maven for project building. Managed the framework dependency jars using Maven. Used SVN source control repository tool, where Java and Selenium test source code and resources are maintained. Captured Screenshots on Failure or Pass to analyze the test failure reason. Conducted backend testing using SQL queries to validate data for database and Used SQL queries for retrieving data from database for executing user specific test cases. Interacted and worked with the development team to analyze the defects and reported them in JIRA and tracked them for closure. Pulled code and tested code which is up to date from GIT-HUB SCM using GITHUB commands on Windows Machine. Performed functional testing of SOAP and RESTFUL Web Services using SOAPUI Tool. Participated in weeklyQAstatus and project status meetings to report any defects and issues encountered in application. Project delivery under stringent timelines and high pressure. Scheduled and prioritized work and plan a sequence of testing activities that accomplish the planned targets. Set priorities and provide reports to the management. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, Eclipse, Oracle, HTML, SVN, JUnit, TestNG, Jenkins, SoapUI, JIRAMaven, Cucumber, Appium, Selenium Grid. Senior QA Automation Engineer Confidential, Connecticut Responsibilities: Actively involved in all stages of software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes requirement, analysis, design, development, testing and documentation, Agile/Scrum methodologies. Designed and developed test plan, test cases and automated test scripts. Designed and executed test scripts for manual testing on desktop browsers (Windows and Mac), and mobile devices (iPhone and Android) Evaluated Business Level Requirements, and Manual testing methods. Involved in understanding the requirements from Functional Specification Document, Use cases, User Stories, cross team meetings and discussions. Validated modules of online banking which includes add external account, Balance transfer, Online Payment Management, Mortgage, etc. Performed Smoke, Functional, Integration, System, User Acceptance Testing, Regression and GUI testing. Developed test cases and performed Integration testing of the combined software modules and tested as a group. Automation Expertise through HP Unified Functional Testing Selenium for creating, maintaining, and debugging complex and innovative scripts for frameworks such as Modular, Data-Driven, Keyword-Driven, Hybrid Framework and BPT Framework. Performed end-to-end testing considering all interfaces and subsystem for functional and non-functional testing. Followed up on defects status and generated reports for managements. Identified correct GUI elements using various Selenium Locators like ID, Name, Link Text, Partial Link Text, XPath and CSS to find the Web Elements using selenium and creating automation scripts. Developed and enhanced numerous test scripts to handle changes in the objects, in the tested application's GUI and in the testing environment using Selenium WebDriver Designed and executed Selenium test cases using Maven (Page Object Module) and Jenkins. Used Jenkins for nightly build execution and sending status mail if build fails to QA team Performed acceptance testing usingCucumber. Developed BDD tests usingCucumberby writing behavior and step definitions & developed required Selenium support code in JAVA forCucumber. Experienced with Acceptance Test-Driven Development(ATDD). Developed Cucumber suite for Behavior Driven Development usingCucumber. Developed and maintained several test scripts to automate the process of testing using Selenium WebDriver, with TestNG framework usingjava. Developed, maintained, and executed test plans, test case, and manual testing using SQL scripts for Oracle with TOAD. Expertise in writing the Test scripts using core java language. Expertise in Object Oriented Programming and skilled in developing automated test scripts in Selenium. Experienced in using Selenium WebDriver, Eclipse, Javaand TestNG frameworks in creating test scripts, Annotation, Parameterization, Data providers, Test suites and HTML reports. Used GitHub as a version control managements systems for the automation scripts and used Git to update repository. Performed cross-browser testing for the web interface and mobile application using Selenium WebDriver Identified the Elements usingAppiumInspector. Configuring theAppiumfor the Mobile IOS using selenium Configured Appiumfor the Mobile Android Native App using selenium. Responsible for performance testing (Load, Stress and Volume) usingJMeter (Controller, Virtual User Generator). Involved in end-to-end testing from the planning to design and development into execution, working very closely with the development teams and the customer Performed test automation for UI and WCF/REST Services and created reusable and shareable components Using JMeter Developed and executed complex SQL queries to validate test data. Performed activities inSQL like select,Index, insert, joining tables, aggregate functions, sub-queries, set functions, triggers, errors andviews. Generated status reports and Defect reports and presented them in weekly status meeting. Communicated with different team such as development, requirement, and configuration management. Environment: JIRA, Selenium WebDriver, Appium, JMeter, API, JUnit, TestNG, Maven, Jenkins, Fire Path, Firebug, HTML, Internet Explorer, Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Cucumber,Gherkin, Java, UNIX, Linux, Windows XP, JavaScript, XML, Excel, SQL, Windows, Selenium. QA Automation Engineer Confidential, St. Louis, MO Responsibilities: Understanding business requirements gathered from Business Analysts. Participated in identifying the Test scenarios and designing the Test cases. Understanding requirement and developing end to end automation test scripts using SeleniumWebDriver with TestNG framework. Involved in development and execution of TestNG suites for the bank application modules using TestNG framework. Developed and maintained automated regression test cases in Selenium WebDriver using Java. Used Ant build management and implemented the framework dependency jar files. Identifying the web elements easily by id, name, CSS Selector, XPath, Class Name, link Text, partialLinkText, tag Name using the Firebug and Fire Path. Saved remarkable time and cost of testing by automation using Selenium WebDriver, JAVA, Cucumber. Implemented Implicit and Explicit waits to overcome synchronization issues. Automated Smoke and Functional test cases using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and Java (Eclipse IDE). Used updated extent reports dependencies to generate more pictorial reports. Involved in updating Framework functions when needed, executed them and generated reports. Analyzed Test Reports and Prepared Test Summary Report. Performed Smoke, End to End and Regression tests in Test environment and Production support environment. Involved in cross browser testing in different browsers and operating system using selenium grid. Handled broken links and inter application links in development test and production environments using Selenium WebDriver. Used SOAPUI tool to test Service Oriented Architecture(SOA) based architecture application to test SOAP services and REST API. Configured SoapUI Assertions to verify Soap and Rest response. Used Java and JSON API to test Restful Web Services. Extensively used SQL programming in backend and front-end functions, procedures, packages to implement business rules and security. Used JIRA as a test Management tool and as a bug reporting tool to track test progress, execution and deliverables. Configured TestNG to get reports using I Listener in selenium WebDriver. Implemented the mouse and keyboard events using the Actions class. Used Apache POI to read and write data from Excel sheets and testing the test scenarios. Provide Daily and Weekly Status Reports on project. Environment: Selenium IDE, Selenium WebDriver, Apache POI, Java, Firebug, Fire Path, HTML, CSS, X-path, SQL, Ant, SOAPUI, TestNG, XML, JIRA, Jenkins. Quality Assurance Tester Confidential Responsibilities: Analyzed user requirements for application enhancements and preparing testing specifications. Optimized Selenium scripts for Regression testing of the application with various data sources and data types. Involved in Automation testing of web based applications using Selenium. Involved in bug tracking using Quality Center. Involved in writing the SQL Queries. Executed and scheduled the automated test scripts from Quality Center. Involved in preparing manual test scripts to evaluate Corporate Information Security Web based user authentication applications. Involved in Analyzing the requirements document to formulate the test cases and conducted manual testing for the entire application Prepared Test cases and Test plans for new functional modules. Used Selenium IDE for test automation for record and playback of scripts and performed functionality testing, GUI testing, and regression testing manually. Performed Data Driven and Keyword driven Tests Designed and maintained Hybrid Framework Extensively used my SQL proficiency during data migrations. Prepared load test scripts using Apache JMeter. Developed unit tests using JUnit. Used Firebug and Fire path for element identification while creating Page Object Repository. Executed automated tests in appropriate test regions in support of unit, integration, functional, and regression testing using WebDriver. Designed and developed automated scripts. Developed automation scripts using Selenium to make them flexible and useful for Regression testing. Environment: Manual Testing, SQL, User Acceptance Test Cases (UAT), Agile Testing Methodology, UNIX, MS SQL Server, MS Excel, QC, JUnit, Windows XP, Selenium IDE, WebDriver, HTML, SoapUI, XML, Java Script, UNIX and Windows. Software Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Involved in analysis and design of the application. Prepared the detailed design document for the project. Involved in developing the application using J2EE architecture. Involved in developing forms using HTML and performing client side validations using JavaScript. Forms were designed for user interaction using JSP, JavaScript, HTML. Involved in API development using Core Javaconcepts and developed the code per functional requirement. Developed code Using Eclipse for integrated development environment. Designed User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS, and HTML for a front end view and displayed the hierarchy tree of agents. Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Designed and developed Servlets to communicate between presentation and business layer. As a developer, coordinated with on-site team and client in understanding the business process and requirement understanding. Used JMS in the project for sending and receiving the messages on the queue. Developed the Servlets for processing the data on the server. Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server and used the JDBC for data retrieval from the database for various inquiries. Designed SQL queries and Stored Procedures for data accessing. Involved in the team discussions regarding the Modeling, Architectural and Performance issues. Maintained versions using the CVS tool to merge code, check in and checkout the data. Participated in Code Review and Quality Assurance. Analyzed defects and fixed problems and Involved in peer review of test results. Performed testing of the application (Unit testing, Integration testing, System testing). Involved in writing and reviewing unit test cases using Junit. Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, JMS, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, MySQL Server, CVS, JUnit 