SUMMARY Over 8+years of experience in Software analysis, Software Quality Assurance Testing of Web, Web Services, Client/Server applications and databases. Experience in all stages of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and worked on Waterfall and Agile project environment. Experience in designing Test Cases, Test Scenarios, Test Scripts & Test reports by using client requirements. Expert in using test automation tools such as Selenium WebDriver, IDE, RC, Grid, and Quick Test pro(QTP). Experiencein implementing Data Driven, Keyword Driven, Hybrid frameworks. Experience in Behavior driven development (BDD) using Cucumber / Gherkin. Hands on experience in developing Appium scripts using Java for mobile applications and Used Perfecto mobile. Experience in end to end testing for Angular JS using Protractor. Involved in Functional, Integration, security, performance and Interoperability testing for the SOA/Web service based applications. Sound knowledge on Junit, NUnit, TestNG framework.Used Maven and Ant for Project building tool, Jenkins/Hudson/Bamboo for Continuous Integration. Experience in doing performance testing of service using JMeter, HP Load Runner. Developed an automated scripts and frame works using Java, C#, Groovy Script, VB Script. Working experience with defect tracking tools likeJira, HP ALM/Quality Center, TFS. Expertise in performing Android Emulators & IOS Simulators for Mobile Automation Testing using Appium for Native, Hybrid and Web Based mobile applications. Hands on experience in writing SQL Queries, extract data from MS - SQL Server, MySQL, DB2 and Oracle. Experience with source version control tools such as Subversion (SVN), TFS, Git and Bitbucket. Designed and created service test automation using Ready API (SOAPUI) and Groovy script. Knowledge of Web Development technologies in general, including HTML, JSON, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX & XML. Extensive experience with Microsoft Office tools (MS-Word, Outlook, PowerPoint, Excel, and Access). Good experience with code coverage and code review toolsuch as Jacoco. Experience withAllure Report and Extent Report to display detailed test execution reports with pie chart along withscreenshots of corresponding failed test cases. Developed and executed test cases for XML and Restful services using SOAPUI tool. Involved in writing Scenarios, Scenario outlines, feature and Step definitions using Cucumber for BDD. Experience in functional testing, Regression Testing, user acceptance testing(UAT), integrationtesting, system testing, performance testing, Stress and Load, White Box Testing, Black Box testing, Smoke testing, API Testing, Cross browser testing, compatibility testing & security testing. Expertise in creating Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), Daily/Weekly Status Report, Defect Report, and Project Report. Good analytical and communication skills and ability to work independently with minimal supervision and perform as part of a team. TECHNICAL SKILLS Test Approaches: Waterfall, Agile/Scrum, SDLC, STLC, Bug life Cycle Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver, QTP, JMeter, HP load Runner, SOAP,Postman, Protractor,Manual Testing, Appium (Android & iOS Testing). Frameworks: Page Object Model, Keyword Driven, Data Driven, ATDD, BDD, Hybrid Testing, Cucumber, Jasmine, Gherkin, TestNG, Junit, NUnit, log4j. Build &Integration tools: Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Bamboo, Hudson. Programming Languages: Java, C#, .Net. Browsers: Firefox, Internet Explorer, Safari, Google Chrome, Opera. Operating System: Windows Variants, Unix, Linux, Mac, iOS, Android. Database tools: MS-SQL Server, MySQL, DB2 and Oracle. Defect Tracking Tools: HP ALM, Quality Center, Jira, TFS Scripting Languages: JavaScript, VB Script, Groovy Script. Markup Languages: HTML, XML, JSON, Xpath, XCode, XSD, XSL, XSLT, JSP, AJAX, CSS MS Office Tools: MS Project, Outlook, Excel, PowerPoint, MS Access, Word Other Utilities: Eclipse, WebStorm, Notepad++, Microsoft Visual Studio, IntelliJ, SQL, GIT, SVN,Bitbucket, TFS, Chrome Dev tools Types of testing: Manual Testing, UI Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing, Black Box Testing, White Box Testing, Functional Testing, Performance, Stress and Load, Smoke, Sanity, API, and Unit testing. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Pittsburgh, PA Sr. QA Automation Tester Responsibilities: Reviewed project artifacts, analyzed Requirements, designed the test plan, and worked with multiple testing teams and testing metrics, test logs and test summary reports. Interacted with Business Analyst & Developers to understand the application architecture &testing strategy. Involved in testing the application utilizing the Scrum (Agile) methodology. Developed the Automation Test Scripts in Selenium WebDriver using Java based on the design pattern Page Object Model for reusability. Prepared Test Cases using Data Driven, Hybrid, and Keyword Driven Framework in WebDriver Designed, Developed, Executed and Maintained Automated Test Scripts using by BDD (Behaviour Driven Development) testing framework with Cucumber and Gherkin Language. Wrote automated scripts for Angular JS application using protractorand Java script. Used Selenium Grid to run test cases in multiple browsers and Platforms. Created Maven Project using Maven build automation tool to create dependencies like wars, jars. Usage of plugins for invoking XML files Prepared test data document and Involved in generation of bug and test case execution reports. Involved in SOA architecture which include Soap and Restful Web Services Testing. Developed Web Services framework susing SOAP UI, XML and Rest Api and in providing required input data to request XML & get the required data from response XML & use the response data from other request XML using SOAP UI and Generated Custom HTML Reports for each run. Developed API Automation frameworks using SOAPUI, Groovy Script and validated data from different data sources using JDBC and ODAT Aurls. Used BDD framework with Cucumber, Java and created feature files with scenario and scenario outline files. Logged and managed defects using JIRAdefect management tool. Involved in Maven configuration for running servers and scripts after the build. Used Jenkins as continuous integration server to run automated test suites. Used Jacoco as a java code coverage tool to calculate code coverage for unit tests and functional tests. Used web-debugging tools like XPath, Firebug and Firepath to run automation script in stable condition. Designed and Developed Smoke, Regression automation script and Automation of functionaltesting framework for all modules using Selenium and WebDriver. Validated website functionality using Chrome Dev Tools. Developed and executed SQL queries to verify the proper insertion, deletion and updates into the database and investigate for solutions using data analysis practices and prepare analysis reports. Performed Smoke, Functionality, Integration, Regression tests based on analysis, and understanding of the requirements, non-functional specifications, and end-user needs. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, Cucumber, Java, Selenide, Protractor, SOA Testing, JIRA, Jenkins,GitLab, Karma, Jacoco, Chrome Dev tools, Groovy Scripting, JDBC, OData,Firebug, IntelliJ IDEA, WebStorm, SOAPUI, SQL Server, Junit, Maven, HTML, CSS, AgileMethodology, Microsoft Excel. Confidential, Minneapolis, MN Sr. QA Automation Engineer/ Mobile Tester Responsibilities: Designed Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, Junit, Maven. Good Experience in Agile methodology with SCRUM Process for the product development. Developed automation script for Mobile Native applications (IOS, Android) using Appium, Java. Responsible for implementation of Hybrid Test Automation Framework, Page Object Model using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and Maven and Java. Integrated Automation scripts (Selenium WebDriver API) in Continuous Integration tools (Jenkins) for nightly batch run of the Script. Used emulators and IOS simulators to perform the manual Mobile Testing. Used Cucumber, Appium, XCode for Native Mobile Application automation testing for iOS and Android platform. UsedPerfectoMobile and different types of virtual devices (Emulator& Simulator) for Test Cases Validation Prepared the functional test cases using test design techniques data validation concepts Equivalence partitioning, boundary value analysis Used Selenium Grid to run test cases in multiple browsers and Platforms. Prepared test data document and Involved in generation of bug and test case execution reports. Strong experience with SOA architecture which include Soap and Restful Web Services Testing. Performed web services testing with SOAP UI by validating request and response for XML, JSON files. Involved in testing of services using SOAP/REST services using SOAP UI, Groovy Script. Performed data driven testing by using JDBC and Groovy script as a data source in SOAP UI and configured SQL queries to fetch data from the Oracle database. Wrote Python Scripts to develop automated scripts and frame works. Used BDDframework with Cucumber, Java and created future files with scenario and scenario outline files. Logged and managed defects using JIRA defect management tool Used Karma to find and runs tests in web browserand supports various test frameworks. Prepared manual & function test cases on web and mobile applications (iOS & Android) as per requirements. Responsible for implementingLoadRunner, Performance center, JMeterbased infrastructure including: Architecting the load testing infrastructure, hardware & software integration with LoadRunner. Experienced in load and performance testing tool JMeter. Wrote automated scripts for Angular JS application using protractor and Java scripts. Developed test code in Java language using Eclipse, IDE and TestNG framework. Involved in Maven configuration for running servers and scripts after the build. Used Jenkins as continuous integration server to run automated test suites. Used web-debugging tools like XPath, Firebug and Firepath to locate elements. Wrote SQL Queries for backend/ETL testing. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, Jenkins, Cucumber, SOAP UI, Maven, Appium (Android), TestNG, Quality Center,Firepath, Firebug, Eclipse, XPATH, Java, Android, SQL Server, JMeter, JIRA,Agile, Protractor. Confidential, West Des Moines, IA QA Automation Engineer/ Mobile Tester Responsibilities: Created Automation Test Scripts using JavaTestNG, Selenium WebDriver/Grid and used Maven Build tool to run the Automation. Responsible for implementation of Hybrid Test Automation Framework, Page Object Model using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and Maven and Java. Analyze business requirements, Software requirement specifications to create test plan and test cases for manual and automation testing using Selenium Web Driver. Worked on Cross Browser testing through Selenium WebDriver by testing the Scripts on different browsers. Implemented SeleniumGrid to run Regression Tests on multiple nodes and browsers. Used Cucumber, Appium, XCode for Native Mobile Application automation testing for iOS and Android platform Designing and developing test strategy, test plan, test cases and generating test reports and defect reports. Used Java programming features to enhance the test cases and optimize the code. Performed both single test runs and batch test executions of Selenium scripts for this application. Tested compatibility of application for dynamic and static content under various cross browsers using HTML ids and XPATH in Selenium and Published html test reports and shared with client. Involved in performing Functionality testing, Validationtesting, Negative and Positivetesting, Integration testing, testing manually on the first release of the application. Integrated Automation scripts (Selenium WebDriver API) in Continuous Integration tools (Jenkins) for nightly batch run of the Script. Created Project plan on Jenkins, configured scheduled using Cron job. Experienced in data retrieving and executing stored procedure in SQL for database testing. Created detailed QA and UAT cases to validate the quality of the application. Involved in SOAP&REST based web services testing using SOAP UI web services testing tool. Developed script and performed Web Services testing using SOAP UI tool for functional and regression testing. Tested request and response XML&based web services interfaces using SOAP UI. Performed defect reporting and bug tracking using HP ALM and also followed up with development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status. Executed the test plans on web and mobile (Apple & Android) as per requirements using Appium tool. Performed End-to-End testing, including performance testing&load testing after bug fixes and modifications Prepared user documentation with screenshots for UAT (User Acceptance testing). Participated QA weekly meetings and various other meetings and discussed Enhancement and Modification Request issues and defects in the application. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, Appium, TestNG, Maven, Grid, Cucumber, Webservices, JSONJAVA, J2EE, Gherkin, Groovy Scripting, DOM, Test Plans, Git, HP ALM Quality Center, Protractor, JMeterJenkins, SOAP UI, REST, JAVA Script, XCode, Agile Methodology, iOS, Windows, Linux, Unix. Confidential, Kansas City, MO Sr.QA Analyst Responsibilities: Developed automated test scripts defining scenarios and procedures to test the application using Microsoft Visual Studio and Selenium Web Driver with C#. Developed the automation Test cases using NUnit Framework using Objects developed the Page Object Model Framework. Written new test Objects (with UI functions, and Business logic functions) in Selenium with C#. Updated Automation Test Cases based on New Changes in functionality. Involved in performing Functional and Regression testing, Staging/live testing of the application. Performed cross-browser testing (Firefox, Chrome with selenium scripts, all browsers manually). Converted existing Manual Test Cases (smoke, regression) into selenium test suites. Followed version control standards with TFS. Utilized HP Quality Center (HP QC) as a bug tracking system. Delivered overall Test Summary reports from the Quality Center (QC). Involved in mapping the requirements to the test cases in QC. Performed database validation using SQL queries Using VBScript Performed Database Validation Testing using complex SQL queries. Involved in Performing the web services testing with SOAP UI by validating request and response for XML Involved in testing of services using SOAP/REST services using SOAP UI,Groovy Script. Performed functional and regression testing in each sprint and UAT for each release to Production. Performed data driven testing by using JDBC and Groovy script as a data source in SOAP UI and configured SQL queries to fetch data from the Oracle database. Effectively Communicated testing status to QA lead, project managers, and teams who are involved in User Acceptance Testing. Environment: C#,SQL, NUnit,HTML, SOAP UI, Groovy Script, Quality Center, VBScript, HTML, MSWord, MS Excel,UNIX, Microsoft Test Manager, Oracle. Confidential QA Analyst Responsibilities: Spearheading the Testing effort by performing requirement analysis for both manual and automated testing. Prepared Test Plan, Test Scenarios and Test Cases. Developed Test cases from business use cases, Test data and test scripts for testing Used Selenium Grid, NUnit test scripts to run automated test cases in parallel on 5 environments Maintained the Selenium Cucumber & JAVA automation code and resources in source controls like CVS, SVN over the time for improvements and new features. Converted Manual Integration tests into automated tests. Used JIRA to manage test scripts, requirements tracking and test case design. Developed and maintained QTP/UFT test scripts to support regression testing whenever a Change Request is completed. Extensively involved in developing VBScript for automation using QTP. Created and implemented Data Driven QTP scripts for functional and regression testing. Performing responsibilities of object identification and performing Data Driven Testing. Created Exception handlers and user-defined functions in QTP. Performing Back end testing with extensive use of SQL Queries. Utilized SQL to create test data and perform backend validation of GUI basedapplications. Written complex SQL queries (Join, Sub-queries) Used Quality Center to house all test documentation and report/track all issues and defects Documented and reported the progress to the management on an ongoing basis and updated the requirement and defect status as per the current status of the testing project in Quality Center. Involved in generating various reports for analysis and correct projection of data. Used Quality Center to manage test scripts, requirements tracking and test case design. Worked on Automation framework. Creating and using function library. Solved day-to- day problems of the team arising due to functionality and validation issues. Participated in all QA review meetings. Prepared daily status reports using MS word, Excel for all testing modules. Validated automated test scripts to ensure that all test scenarios are completed and operating in all test Environments. Environment: VBScript, Visual studio, Microsoft Team Foundation Server, SQL, Agile, Windows 7, MS office,Quick Test Professional/UFT, Jira. Confidential Manual Tester Responsibilities: Designed the efficient manual test cases based on analysis of Business Requirements, Functional Specs, Technical design documents, Use Cases, Supporting documents. Reviewed and analyzed Detail Designed Specification and Technical Specification documents. Analyzed the SRS (System Requirement Specifications) and developed Test Suites to cover the overall quality assurance testing. Interacted with developers to follow up on Opened Bugs and involved in complete QA Life Cycles. Used MS Excel and RationalClear Quest to maintain test cases and test scripts. Developed and maintained Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM)to ensure all conditions are covered. Performed Manual Testing to check flow of the application. During testing life cycle, performed different types of testing like System Testing, Integration& Regression Testing. Creation of Status reports and Sending the status to the upper management as required. Developed various reports to communicate testing issues the project manager. Participated in QA Team meetings and weekly QA testing reviews. Environment: Manual Testing, Clear Quest, MS Visio, HTML, Java Script, Oracle, Windows, UNIX. 