SUMMARY Over 8 Years of experience in analysis, design, transforming client requirements into technical specifications, Modeling and developing application using ASP.NET, MVC, WEB API, WCF, EF, ANGULAR JS, JQUERY, BOOTSTRAP, SQL SERVER, WPF, MVVM. Good knowledge on design principles, secure coding techniques and design patterns like FASCADE, FACTORY, BUILDER, etc. I have good understanding of Agile and Waterfall methodology. Good knowledge on gathering the requirements (BRD, SRS), analysis, design (TDD), development, testing (UTP) and deployment for enhancements Agile and Scrum project methodology, including Scrum master roles and activities (facilitating backlog item sizing and prioritization, iteration/sprint planning, running daily standups, facilitating/running retrospectives, etc.) Expertise in designing ASP.Net web forms and ASP.NET MVC Views using CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS and HTML5. Extensive Experience in using various design patterns such as MVC (Model - View-Controller), Singleton, Session Façade, Factory, DAO, Front Controller and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications. Experience in Language-Integrated Query (LINQ) to retrieve data from different data sources (LINQ to Entities, LINQ to XML, and LINQ to SQL. Experienced in MEAN stack development (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS & NodeJS). Strong experience of developing data models, mapping classes with Relational and NoSql databases using entity framework Expertise in developing web applications in Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/2010 using ASP.Net, C#, SQL Server 2008 and MySQL. Highly experienced with modern JavaScript frameworks and libraries like AngularJS, NodeJS and JQuery. Well versed with C, C++, C#, ASP.NET and ADO.NET languages. Good Knowledge in using WCF, SOAP, MVC 4, and IIS, Microsoft visual source safe. Proficient in Object oriented analysis and design practices, object modeling, use cases, activity diagrams and class diagrams using UML. Experience with VB 6.0, ADO.NET, AJAX, LINQ, XML, XSLT, SOAP, DHTML, COM, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS. Proficient with Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), .NET Web Services using WSDL, SOAP and UDDI. Software life cycle, including requirements gathering, architecture & design, development, testing, documentation and training, deployment, plus maintenance and capacity planning As a full stack developer I got experience in Business Link layer and Data Access layer with entity models. Advanced C# and Microsoft .NET programming experience (including .NET 3.5, .NET 4.0, and .NET 4.5.x) Microsoft SQL Server programming and development (including SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2008 R2, SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2014) Advanced ASP.NET development (including ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET WEB API, Web Forms, and Web Pages/Razor) Testing, including continuous integration testing and advanced unit testing design and implementation for non-trivial class methods and user interface event handlers; Good knowledge on requirement gathering, analysis, system modelling, design and development of N-tier client server application architecture. Strong relational database background in SQL Server, Oracle 10g with extensive knowledge in writing T-SQL scripts, Stored procedure, Views, Database designing and Maintenance. Good experience in developing database programs like Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Triggers, Packages and implementation scripts (Batch Scripts) on PL SQL & T-SQL using Oracle 8i/9i/10g and Microsoft SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 . Experience working in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages to extract, transform and load (ETL) data from different databases. Experience in deployment using IIS Application Servers. Capacity planning, load testing, and analysis of CPU/core/thread & RAM usage, SQL Server utilization, and web traffic patterns Extensive front end and backend development experience working with .Net Framework 3.0/3.5/4.0, Visual Studio.NET 2008/2010/2013. Close follow-up with other teams in an agile environment. Experience in analysis and development of client/server, web based application. Strong communication and client interaction skills. Effective in working independently and collaboratively in teams. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: Windows 2003, Windows 7, Windows 8, 8.1 Programming languages: C#, VB.Net, Angular JS, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, XML, XML Schemas Web Technologies: ASP.NET, MVC, Web API, AJAX, XML, Web Services, WCF, VBA, ASP 3.0/2.0, Active X, WSDL, UDDI .NETTechnologies: .NETFramework (1.1/2.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5), ADO.NET, WPF, Entity Framework Unit Testing Frameworks: MS-Test, Nunit, Junit, Jasmine. RAD/IDE: Visual Studio .Net 2005/2008/2010/2012/2013 Database Development: Oracle 10g/9i/8i, MS SQL server 2000/2005/2008 , MS-Access, MySQL SQL Server Tools: SQL Management Stud io, Profiler, Query Analyzer, Export & Import (DTS) Scripting Languages: JavaScript, VBScript Reporting Tools: Business Objects XI 3.1/R1/R2/R3/6.x, Crystal Reports XI/2008 Source Repositories: SVN, TFS, Visual Source Safe, IBM Clear Case PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - NY UI/Sr.Net Developer Responsibilities: Developed business use cases, sequential, collaborative, activity and class diagrams for the enterprise presentation, and business and data access components of the system using UML. Developed Single page applications using AngularJS and extensively used in development and testing applications for client side MVC architecture. Used MVC framework to reduce the complexity and to get control over the behavior of the application. Involved in design and development of UI component, which includes layered POVs and Carousels using frameworks AngularJS, JavaScript and JQuery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and LESS. Developed AngularJS functionality in the application to provide two-way binding to the system. Worked on AngularJS MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application and created some custom directives like ng-datepicker, ng-cartbox, ng-pagenation. Created collections and performed CRUD operations on Mongodb using Node Mongoose and used Robomongo client Used $http and $resource service for retrieving data from the server via XMLHttp request object in Angular.js framework. Used Bootstrap & media queries to create Responsive Webpages across the different size of screen from phone or Laptop. Used C#.NET, ASP.NET and Entity framework to define and implement secure middle-tier components using both connected and disconnected environment strategies. Components were consumed by web applications utilizing SQL Server and stored procedures to perform logical business transactions. Extensively used XML and JSON Serialization for transferring the data from controller to view. Developed the application using ASP.NET 4.0, MVC 4, Razor, C#, jQuery, Ajax, Html5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JSON, LINQ, Repository Pattern, Action Filters Experienced in writing complex PL/SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers. Worked Extensively with Query Optimization Techniques to Fetch Data with better Performance Tuning. Created various Angular Services & injected them into Angular Controllers (using Dependency Injection) to enable AJAX calls and created custom angular directives to create own HTML tags and induce some kind of functional behavior to those tags. Used custom error handling in Web API to pass proper error message rather than generic error message to better understand the error. Involved in design and development of RESTful web services, tested web services using SOAP UI and REST Client. Implemented Restful web service with the use of URI templates and content negotiation. Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, Web API Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, Web API. Implemented Constructor Based Dependency Injection and also DI implementation using factories. Implemented Unit Testing, Integration Testing and System Testing using NUNIT. Maintained the Version, Labeled Versions and Backups of the source using TFS Server 2012/2015. Created, Data Access Layer, Business Logic Layer Classes using C# and .Net 4.5. Implemented SQL standards in writing stored procedures, Triggers, Views, SQL functions and locking issues. Graphical User Interface (GUI) was designed using HTML 5.0, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery 2.1.1, AngularJS, Bootstrap and the business logic was coded in C#. Created Web based applications using ASP.NET 4.0, AJAX, C# and integrated in the SharePoint Portal by using Page Viewer Web Part. Provide a defining, senior level contribution to development team responsible for the implementation of critical SOA web-based applications using the .Net Framework and SQL Server technologies Project coordination with offshore development team as per requirement documents, prepared after discussion with the managers of client teams. Database work involved, writing/fixing stored procedures, which were in turn used by the AI-Core Data Access layer. Code deployment to QA, UAT and PROD+DR environments, along-with partial code fixes for minor releases, after verifying fixes done for supported applications team. Extensively used Authorization, Action, Response and Exception Filters. Environment: C#, .NET 4.0/4.5, Visual studio 2013/2015, WSDL, HTML, JavaScript, Entity frame work 6.0, Prism, Net Remoting, MVC 4.0, Entity framework, SQL Server 2012, Resharper, ORM, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Restful Services, JQuery, Agile, AJAX, XML, UML, IIS 8.0, TFS-2012. Confidential, Chicago, IL UI/Sr.Net Developer (Full Stack Developer) Responsibilities: Developed the application using Agile Methodology. Involved in full lifecycle of the project from design, development & Testing. Coded application in C# / ASP.NET using an N-tiered architecture consisting of the presentation layer, BLL and the DAL. Extensive Experience in Implementing View, Model, Controller and View model by using ASP.Net MVC 4.0/3.0 Framework. Developed pages using components such as Angular Bootstrap grid, scheduler, tabs and other input components CSS Pre-Processer LESS for an improved organization of Style sheets. Implemented core features of AngularJS framework such as dependency Injection, Data-binding, Filters, Directives, Templates, Services and Deep Linking Used Twitter Bootstrap for responsive web design of Navigation controls. Applied multiple built-in Directives such as ng-model, ng-click into AngularJS application. Wrote client side UI Validation and implemented Business logic based on user selection using JQuery, JQuery UI and AngularJS Used ASP.NET MVC4 Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the model. Used JavaScript for client side validations. Implemented Web Services using SOAP are used on the middle tier to check credit card information of customers. Developed, deployed and consumed WCF Web Service to access DAL components Worked extensively on MS-Visio to design various UML Diagrams like Sequence Diagram and Class Diagrams. Involved in designing the User Interface using the Telerik Controls. Involved in developing SQL, Stored Procedures, functions, triggers using SQL and comfortable working with databases like SQL Server, DB2, No-SQL and MySQL. Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JQuery in ongoing projects and used WPF and XAML for the better look and feel of the desktop-based application. Used Entity Framework to design conceptual data access layer from relational database to get the data from database. Created custom controls for use in entire application, mainly for SQL injection prevention. Used LINQ to query on Collection objects and DBML data objects to filter the data. Defined and implemented customized configurations settings for application local Web configuration file for incorporating user authentications and authorizations via role based security in order to restrict accessibility to certain modules. Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications internal and third party components using RESTful services. Extensively used SSIS to create packages to move data from a single data source to a destination. Involved in fixing the issues occurred in the testing process, provided support and also involved in maintenance process. Manipulated data using CRUD operations of MongoDB and SQL management studio and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service. Developed the user manual for the end user. Responsible for code delivery as per provided guidelines. Performed Unit testing of the application and subsequently handled the debugging issues. Used Team Foundation Server for the version control, branching and MS build. Environment: ASP.NET 4.0, HTML5, HTML, CSS2/3, Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2008, Telerik Controls for .NET, WebServices, C#, WCF, UML, XML, Ajax, IIS 7.0, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Knockout JS TFS, Entity Frame work, ORM. Confidential - Austin, TX UI/ .Net Developer (Full Stack Developer) Responsibilities: Worked in close quarters with clients in order to gather the requirements. The requirements were dynamic i.e. changing from time to time from search queries of the customer till the customer representative notes and in Rating module the logic and schema of the business layer had to be changed and updated frequently. Have designed and developed web application for the users to login and view the data, ASP.Net is used for the page design and coding was done using C#. Designed and developed UI using ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, JQuery and AJAX. Exception handling functionalities were embedded into the business logic layer with C#.NET as code behind. Was involved in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Coding, System Tests, Installation and Maintenance. Client-Side validations were used as validation controls and JavaScript were coded for functionalities at client-side. Master Pages were used to achieve uniformity in the entire application and CSS were used for theming the pages. New Assemblies were developed to implement various functionalities in the Business Logic using C#.NET. Used MVC design pattern in checking Log in credentials and displaying the necessary components and data to the particular user. Created services using WCF over HTTP and TCP/IP protocols. Extensive experience on data integration using SSIS. Used ADO.NET and related data objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader, Data Set and Data Table for consistent access to SQL data sources. Used Session State, Query string for saving data on the page and transferring data from one page to another page. Used Response. Redirect to navigate from one page to another page. Created Stored Procedures, PL/SQL statements, Functions to manipulate the databases. SQL queries were written using joins on multiple tables into stored procedures. Functions, Triggers and Indexes were also used for achieving few database search functionalities. Developed Web user controls for reusing controls in multiple web pages. Used TFS for the purpose of project tracking and Source Control. Explained the developed business functionalities and objects using use-case diagrams. Worked on developing SSRS reports for generating different types of reports. Performed several unit tests and integrated tests and also prepared user document related to the module. Used ASP.NET AJAX Toolkit controls like Script Manager, Update Panel within some web pages for partial rendering of the page. Used Bugzilla and TFS (for limited time period) to design, format code and find bugs respectively. Environment: Visual Studio 2008/2012, .Net Framework4.0, XAML, WCF, LINQ, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, JavaScript, SQL Server Management Studio 2008, Angular JS, C#, Web services, ASP.NET, AJAX, CSS, Entity frame work, Agile Methodologies, PL-SQL, SOAP, REST, XML, HTML, DHTML, TFS, SSIS, SSRS. Confidential, Concord, CA UI/ .Net Developer (Full Stack Developer) Responsibilities: Involved in Requirements Collection and System Specifications from Business analysts, System owners and System operators. Involved in analyzing the requirements and design of various modules in the application. Involved in development of Web Forms, Win Forms, and Classes using C#.NET that incorporates both N-tier architecture and database connectivity. Developed ASP.Net pages using ASP.NET 2.0 web form controls, Custom Controls, HTML server controls in C#. Served as the SPOC for SSIS technology and projects in my team and was involved in creating and deploying several SSIS packages for the whole team. Worked with designing, maintaining and analyzing databases, Stored Procedures, and Triggers using SQL Server 2008 and application interaction using ADO.NET Developed Custom controls like Date Picker, Data grid, Text Box, and Dropdown controls HTML, XHTML, CSS, HTML controls, Web-Server controls were used to create web pages. Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features. Used LINQ to Entities for retrieving and filtering the data proficiently. Used Code First Approach development pattern. Involved in User Acceptance testing and Integration testing. Created complex Reports like drill down, drill through, parameterized reports using SSRS. Implemented WCF services and better logging exception management support to help in the premature detection of new problems. Used LINQ effectively with Lambda expressions to process the C# generic collections. Expertise in designing ASP.NET based Graphical User Interfaces with CSS, JavaScript, Ajax and HTML. Created event driven Web Forms using ASP.NET and implemented form validation using Validator controls using both Custom validation and JavaScript was written for Client side validations and also used the new validation controls in VS 2010. Used IIS as Web Server. Implemented Search Engine Optimization/ Search Engine Marketing (SEO/SEM Google Analytic) techniques on the web application to increase traffic on the site. Make checks if the server is returning errors and do the necessary exceptions. Monitor the application and fix errors on server. Testing the application on multiple environment and devices like windows and android. Created Excel reports using Macros that would simulate reports on the web page by accessing the database. Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2010, VB.NET, C#, ASP, ASP.Net 4.0/3.5, .Net XML, XHTML, SQL Server, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SSRS, Server Controls, IIS5.0, DMZ Configuration, Win2007/NT, Web Services, SOAP, ODBC, Web Forms, caching, CSS, UDDI, SOA, Android, Adobe Photoshop, JavaScript. Confidential Responsibilities: Designed and created ER Diagram and a new database in SQL Server 2005. Used OOPS (object oriented programming) concepts in developing classes. Used ADO.NET Controls like Connection, Command, Dataset and Data reader. Created Web Service using C# having generic methods for accessing the database for common kind of functionality used by all the clients. Used forms based .Net security for securing the access by the users. Testing and debugging of the modules. Transformed XML document with XSLT in ASP.NET application. Visual Source Safe for Source code and configuration management. Coded the Data Base Connection objects in Assembly to make it generic Created various types of reports using Crystal Reports for .NET. Produced consistent achievements in developing projects that are both usable and scalable. Developed the web forms, used HTML server controls, Web server controls, validation controls using ASP.NET. Used OOPS (object oriented programming) concepts in developing classes. Used ADO.NET Controls like Connection, Command, Dataset and Data reader. Environment: Visual Studio 2008, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, VB.NET, Crystal Reports, SQL Server 2005, IIS, VSS. 