SUMMARY Have 8 years of experience in Software Quality Testing and Development and expertise in both manual and automation testing in Web based applications and Web services. Experience with working on different Software Development Life Cycle like WaterFall and Agile and expert knowledge of scrum model in software testing life cycle. Expertise in Automation tools like Selenium IDE/RC/Grid, Selenium WebDriver and FireBug. Proficiency in Maven and setting up local workspace using Maven, TestNG and Eclipse. Skillful in UI Automation using Data Driven and Hybrid framework and functional testing using Selenium WebDriver and TestNG / JUNIT testing framework. Expertise in automating Restful API Services using Apache HTTP Client, TestNG and Apache POI API and manually testing Restful API Services using Postman. Extensive experience in preparing Test Plans, Test Scenarios,Test Scripts,Test Cases, Test Reports and documentation of manual and automated testing. Hands on experience in Functional testing, Integration testing, Regression testing, back - end testing, browser compatibility testing, Data Driven Testing and User Acceptance Testing using Cucumber tool. Expertise in using Rally / JIRA for logging bugs in a strong AGILE environment. Experience in using CI/CD tool Jenkins for deploying builds for various releases and used GitHub for version control of testing files. Good work experience in using SQL Queries. Very good team player and excellent written and verbal communication skills. Multiple complex tasks handling and excellence in self-audit work. Well-developed interpersonal skills with demonstrated ability to effectively interact with all levels within and outside of the organization TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages:  JAVA, JavaScript, MySQL. Testing Tools:  Selenium WebDriver/Grid,TestNG/Junit, Firebug, Firepath, Quality Center, Apache POI,JXL, Cucumber, postman, Apache HTTP client Web Technologies:  JavaScript, JSON, XML, HTML and Web Service (REST Request/Response) Databases:  Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server 2008/2012 Dev. Methodologies:  Agile Scrum,Waterfall Bug Tracking Tools:  Quality Center, JIRA, Bugzilla, Rally IDE’s:  Eclipse, IntelliJ, Postman Operating Systems:  Windows, MAC, Unix,Linux Misc. Tools:  Git, Jenkins, Maven PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, San Francisco, CA Software Development Engineer in Test Responsibilities: Extensively involved in all stages of testing life cycle, Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) using Waterfall, Agile methodologies. Analyzed Software Requirement Specifications (SRS), Technical Specification and Functional Specification Documents for developing manual test cases. Responsible for maintaining and developing Automated Test Framework using Selenium Web driver and TestNG. Automated Regression Tests using Selenium to run on every release. Used Firebug to identify element locator. Extensively used Selenium (HTML Id, XPath locator) to test the web application Automated Web Services using Apache HTTP client, TestNG, Log4j and Apache POI, Postman. Involved in Web Service/ API manually testing through RestAPI using Postman tool. Tracked and logged defects in Rally and coordinated meetings with developers for bug fixing and problem resolution. Participated in Smoke, Validation and Compatibility testing of the application manually. Used Page Object Model, UI Mapping, Data Driven using CSV, CSS Selectors as a part of Framework. Ensure accuracy and completeness in the test reports. Updated the Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), with Test Case id’s and make sure that all BR’s (Business requirements), TR’s (Technical Requirements) and Detail Design Requirements were mapped perfectly and all Requirements were covered with Test cases. Executed SQL queries to fetch data from database to verify the results. Worked closely with the developers to resolve the design and development errors and to get the software released for system testing. Used Github for creating the version controlling Defect logging, maintenance and tracking for closure after re-testing of defect fix. Created pom.xml in Apache Maven and run the builds the automation selenium test suites on CI tool Jenkins Environment: Agile, Selenium Web Driver, Java, Eclipse, Cucumber, TestNG, Apache POI, Fire Bug, Firepath, XML, XPATH,MAVEN, Jenkins,, JXL, Apache HTTP Client, REST API,, Postman PL/SQL, Oracle, Rally, Quality Center, HTML, Java Script, CSS, UNIX, Web Sphere Application Server. Confidential, TX Software Development Engineer in Test Responsibilities: Actively participated in analyzing Business requirements, specifications and design review meetings. As part of Agile Team, I was responsible for created test plans, test scenarios and wrote test cases for testing various services. Worked on Data Driven framework for functional automation using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and Maven. Trained new team members on how to use Selenium and help them create tests using the framework. Created XML based test suit and integrated with Jenkins Server to execute automation scripts on a regular basis by scheduling Jenkins jobs in different test environments with different test configurations. Validated the Web Services (REST), both Request and Response messages using SOAP UI. Involved in creating XPATH, inserting different types of Assertions to check the quality of services. Used GIT as a version control tool. Collected feedback on Run Failures and reported bugs to Engineers in the product development team. Reported and tracked the bugs to closure using JIRA. Participated in Walkthroughs and Defect report meetings periodically. Environment: Agile, Java/J2EE, Selenium, JXL, Maven, CI Jenkins. Eclipse, Web Services, REST API, Apache HTTP client, TestNG, xml, JSON, SOAP, WSDL, SOAP UI, Log4j,JIRA, Quality Center, Toad, SQL, SVN, Oracle, HTML, Linux, windows. Confidential, Fort Worth, TX Software Developer in Test Responsibilities: Analyzed business requirements documents to get a better understanding of the system from both technical and business perspectives. Created initial test plan and developed manual /automated test cases and test scripts using use cases Reviewed Business requirements, IT Design documents and Studied existing application functionality. Responsible for maintaining and developing Automated Test Framework using Selenium WebDriver and JUnit. Tested compatibility of application for dynamic and static content under various cross browsers using HTML IDs and XPath in Selenium. Involved in testing Web services and XML with tool called Postman. Performing functional, regression, system, integration and database testing. Participated in test planning meetings and submitted test case Status during the meetings. Environment: Agile, Selenium Web Driver, TestNG, Eclipse IDE, JIRA, GIT,.Test Director, MS Office, Java, SQL, HTML, VBScript, SQL Server, Windows, Oracle Confidential, Bostan Software Engineer in Test Responsibilities: Responsible for analyzing business requirements, functional documents and preparation of Testing Test plan. Performed Smoke, Black Box, Validation and Compatibility testing of the application manually. Performed Regression, UAT, Integration, User Interface, GUI, and Usability Testing. Setup test environment and test data for both positive and negative testing. Involved in automation testing using selenium IDE with JAVA, JXL, JUnit Used Quality Center for reporting defects. Interaction with the developers for resolving critical bugs and functionality modifications. Reviewed and analyzed artifacts throughout the SDLC. Reviewed user documentation for accuracy of implemented functionality descriptions. Using SQL Server database extensively to validate the back-end data. Environment: Agile, Selenium, QC, Test Director, Java, JXL, JUnit, SQL, HTML, VBScript, Windows, MS Office, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g, Quality center 8.2. Confidential QA Engineer Responsibilities: Designed, developed and executed manual test cases based on test plan and the Functional Requirements Document. Conducted thorough Smoke, Functional, Regression, Integration and System Testing on the product tracking application. Developing Manual Test Scenarios and Test cases based on the functionality of individual screens, overall system flow, and Field validation including positive and negative scenarios Reported various defects in user-friendly format using QC as a test management tool and defect-tracking tool. Entered new bugs and maintained the status of those bugs. Attending meetings and documented User Change requests and also analyzed user change requirements, and made necessary amendments to the test requirements. Developing SQL queries to validate the report data. Created reports that included general overview, open bugs, new bugs, and enhancement requests. Environment: Manual Testing, Quality Center, HTML, Java, MS Office, SQL Server 2008, windows. 