SUMMARY Experienced as a Quality Assurance Engineer 7+ year in Information Technology with the emphasis on Software Quality Assurance/Testing on various domains like Healthcare, Banking, Insurance, Ecommerce Hands on experience in both manual and automated testing of API’s, Client/Server and Web Based Applications, Good working knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and Quality Assurance Process and Methodologies, worked extensively on Agile Projects and hands on experience in creating task for sprint in Rally and attended Sprint Planning, Scrums, Sprint Review meetings. Experienced in developing and maintaining Test Planning, Test Scenarios, Test Case Design, Test Script Development, Test Environment Setup, Test Data Setup, Defect Management, Test Result and Traceability Matrixs. Expertise in Automation tools such as QTP/UFT, Selenium Web Driver, Selenium IDE, Selenium Grid, Java, Git Hub, Jenkins (continuous integration - CI), Maven, Eclipse, TestNG, JUnit, Cucumber (BDD/TDD) and Appium. Good Knowledge in OOPS (Object Oriented Programming System) concepts i.e., Abstraction, Polymorphism, Encapsulation and Inheritance. Developed and executed test cases for RESTful services using SoapUI tool. Updated WSDL file as needed for Endpoint, Tested request and response XML. Added Assertions to validate the response xml with database. Experience in developing and maintaining Test Automation Frameworks like Data Driven, Keyword Driven, Hybrid and BDD/TDD/ATDD. Experience in designing and developing the BDD/TDD framework and worked very with the scrum master, product owner and users to derive the Scenarios and created feature files using Gherkin language, Step definitions and cukes test using Cucumber tool Experience in creating page objects by using Page Object Model, developing reusable library functions in java and using unit testing frameworks like Junit, TestNG Tested manually and Automated Hybrid Mobile Application using Appium, Selenium, Java Good Experience in using Configuration management tools like Sub Version (SVN), GitHub, and Build management tools like MAVEN and ANT. Good Expertise in Schedule jobs via Jenkins (Continuous Delivery) and Continuous Integration for automating the build and deploy processes allowing significant increase in test automation. Monitoring the jobs scheduled jobs Possess advanced SQL programming skills, strong understanding of data warehousing (ETL and Reporting) concepts and experience working with large relational databases. Proficiency working in Relational Database Management Systems including MS Access, MS SQL, SQL Server and Oracle. Wrote complex SQL queries to extract and validate the data from the database for member and claims data. Involved in analyzing the root cause and presenting appropriate root cause description to Prod. defects as a part of QMG activities Experience in developing and understanding of HTML, XML, CSS and Good Experience in JQuery, Java script Skilled in Bug Reporting and Management using Jira, Quality Center, Rational Clear Quest and MS Excel. Significant experience in Compatibility Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing, Migration Testing and End to End Testing. Expert in Black Box, Functionality, Regression Testing and Smoke Testing. Experience in UAT Testing and Defect Management with continuous client interaction and follow ups. Strong skills in performing Functionality, GUI, Backend, API testing, Stress, Performance, Load and Volume Testing of software applications. Performed GAP analysis, impact analysis, and maintained requirements traceability matrix (RTM). Conducted usability and user acceptance testing (UAT) on behalf of end users. Skillful in Enhancing and Editing Test Scripts. Worked very closely with the Devops team in Agile methodology for deploying and building the Automation Scripts in Continuous integration Strong skills in UNIX and used to UNIX commands in writing, executing queries. Expert in conducting Positive, Negative, Usability and Security Testing as a Tester. Expertise in using testing automation Selenium and REST HTTP Client and REST Assured. Proven expertise in Quality Center (ALM). Experienced in writing test cases, executing test cases, entering defects, requirements, and generating reports in Quality Center, effective QA implementation in all phases of SDLC onsite / offshore model. Good Knowledge in Property and Casualty insurance domain and worked extensively. Experience in testing Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) according to HIPPA Compliance TECHNICAL SKILLS Platforms: Windows 8/7/Vista/XP, UNIX Programming: HTML, CSS, XML, JAVA, SQL, Web services, Soap Database: Oracle 10g, SQL Plus. Bug Tracking: JIRA, Bugzilla, QC, CA Rally Web/Technologies: HTML, XML, CSS, Xpath, Firebug, Java, J2EE, Jenkins (CI) Tool: Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Selenium IDE, HP QTP 11.0, HP Quality Center/ ALM 11, Cucumber, JMeter, Junit, Postman, Cucumber BDD . Browsers: MS Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Chrome, Safari, Opera. Build Tool: Maven Test Approaches: Waterfall, Agile/Scrum, SDLC, STLC Types of testing: Manual Testing, UI Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing, Black Box Testing PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, New York, NY Automation Test Engineer (SDET) Responsibilities: Analyzed the system requirements and developed detailed test plans and test cases and provided the documentation. Collaborated with product management teams in an agile environment to develop a comprehensive set of tests for web-based applications. Writing the test cases and test Scenarios based on the acceptance criteria mentioned in the user stories. Involved in performing functional, application, integration, system, and regression Testing. Web services testing using Post Man Tool. Validated request and response JSON. Involved in testing of application using the Scrum (Agile) methodology. Developed and implemented Behavioral Driven Development Framework, added global reusable libraries, created a package for all page objects using Page Object Model and developed Driver Script. Developed BDD Automation Framework using Cucumber tool and developed Feature files which includes Features, Scenarios and Step Definitions. Performed Cross browser compatibility testing on Chrome, Firefox, IE browsers using TestNG Unit Testing Framework by adding different annotations. Involved in Regression testing using Selenium and creation of automation scripts for web pages. Part of parallel test framework development using Java, Spring Rest Template and JUnit Performed Data-driven testing by using JDBC as a data source in SOAP UI and configured SQL queries to fetch data from the Oracle database. Performed testing on Web Services using WSDL and SOAPUI to check the communication between different services. Maintained and executed Maven build files for running automated tests by adding dependencies. Performed and executed test suite automation scripts using Continuous Integration tool Jenkins. Automated angular module of the application using Protractor and Jasmine. Verified the integration of various components in the application by executing end-to-end testing Logged the errors, reported defects, and tracked the defects using JIRA until resolution Identified, analyzed and documented defects, error and inconsistencies in the application using Quality Center. Created and maintained Test Matrix and Requirement Traceability Matrix and performed gap Analysis. Interacted with developers & various members of project team to discuss and resolve defects and to determine their priorities. Environment: MS Office, JIRA, SQL, Appium, QTP/UFT, Postman, Selenium, Java, JUnit, TestNG, JMeter, Jenkins, MySQL, DB2, Angular 4, Protractor, Jasmine, Karma, HTML, CSS, Linux, Confidential, Morristown, NJ Sr. Automation Tester (SDET) Responsibilities: Involved in complex test cases dealing with Business rules, under writing issues and validations. Involved in test cases related to quote screens and rating behavior. Studied and analyzed the Functional Requirements Specifications and System Design Specifications and interacted with developers for changes in requirements if any. Developing Test plan of the application as per technical specifications. Involved in writing Unit and Regression Test cases for the Product. Involved in setting up the automation framework using Selenium Web Driver, TestNG. Involved in automation testing using Java and selenium. Extensively used cucumber and feature files for implementing the BDD framework. Worked on developing Java code for automation process. Used XPath and DOM to work with dynamic and static objects in Selenium. Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and created selenium automation scripts in java. Developed Automation framework both Data driven and Hybrid using Selenium WebDriver in Java and performing unit testing by using TestNG. Creating and maintaining various databases usingSQLServer. Prepared manual test cases for service appointment creation, modification and deletion. Created automated test scripts for validating the nightly product builds and regression testing. Maintained Defects using Defect Tracking System in Jira. Participated in various meetings and discussed Enhancement and Modification Request issues. Performed all test assignments to ensure the application meets business requirements and client expectations. Summarize test results in formula test analysis reports according to the documentation standards. Involved in testing Webservices (SOAP and REST) and XML with tool called 'SOAP UI' for the local WSDL / with URL and created Test cases, run them, do load testing, security testing. Handled various operations like pop-ups, Web-Alerts, Java-Alerts, iframes, windows-handling and utilized Select class and Action class for required operations. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, Java, TestNG, SQL, Apache POI, Maven, Log4j, JDBC, Eclipse, Web Services, SOAP UI, Restful, SOAPUI, Android, HTML, CSS, JIRA, MSWord, MS Excel, Developer, Windows 7  Confidential, SC Sr. QA Test Engineer Responsibilities: Involved and implementing the daily task like Test Strategy and Test planning. Involved in QA Docs (Test Plan, Scenarios, RTM, Test Case Design), Peer Reviews, Test. Designed & Implemented a Hybrid Test Automation Framework using Selenium WebDriver. Performed GUI functional testingmanually for the application. Expertise in Test Plan creation, Test Case Design, Test case Review, Test Case Execution, Writing Test scripts, testingtools Usage, Defect management, and Prepare Test reports. Experience in Agile and waterfall methodologies, Test Driven Development (TDD) Developed user defined functions for different seleniumlocator types. Planned, designed, executed and evaluated performance tests of web application and services and ensured optimal application performance using Load Runner. Designed and reviewed the test scenarios and scripts for given functional requirements and automated test cases in Selenium. Developed automation test cases, executed these test scripts from test lab and logged defects in JIRA/ALM. Used SOAP UI tool to test SOA based architecture application to test SOAP services and REST API. Functional and regression testing of .net applications is done using Quick Test Pro (QTP). Generated automated scripts using QTP and documented them, created and maintained functional & regression test suites. Used Several TestNG Annotations to take advantage of test lifecycle. Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven tool and created Selenium automation scripts in java using TestNG prior to next quarter release. Created and maintained automated test script for APItesting using Restful. Performed APILevel testing for web services, enhanced the Test harness and developed many Test suites using XML. XML / SOAP using Soap UI and Postman tool. Understanding the requirements (both functional and non-functional) by going through the RESTFUL APIspecifications generated from Swagger and inputs from business analysts. Reviewed database test cases according to assigned Requirements to validate reports by retrieving data with complex SQL queries from SQL Server. Designed data-driven testingin Seleniumand captured data dynamically from web controls. Performed Functional, System and Regression Testing on web and mobile applications at various phases of the Project life Cycle. Actively involved in STLC process and used tools like Selenium RC/Web driver, JMeter, SOAP UI. Setup /Installed and Configured SeleniumIDE. Using SeleniumWebDriver API to automate tests.Record and plays back test in Firefox using SeleniumIDE for UI automation testing. Create test scripts and automate them by using SeleniumIDE. Perform browser compatibility testingof application under various cross browsers (Safari, Firefox, IE, Chrome) using HTML IDs and XPATH in SeleniumWebDriver. Involved in implementing logging and tracking using Jira. Environment: Java, JIRA, Jenkins, ALM, SOA Tester, Eclipse, Junit, Load Runner, Cucumber, HTML5, CSS, Oracle, Maven, JMeter, SeleniumGrid, TestNG, SeleniumWebDriver, Windows 7/XP/Vista.  Confidential, Nashville, TN QA Analyst Responsibilities: Design, analyze and performed Integration and wrote System requirements on different leading health care software’s. Writing Test Plans/Test Scenarios/Test Cases/Test Matrix. Followed the Agile methodology for the entire SDLC Perform Functional Testing, Regression Testing, System Integration testing, (UAT) User Acceptance Testing and End to End Testing Developed Keyword driven framework using QTP and automated various regression scenarios using VB Script, developed reusable functions and wrote Descriptive programming Migrated few test scripts written in QTP to Selenium to achieve the cross-browser testing Responsible in executing Selenium test scripts on different browsers and checked for compatibility. Tested the application in highly dynamic environment with sprint team using Agile methodology. Automated the Test cases using Selenium for Regression testing and Junit for grouping the tests. Created and enhanced numerous test scripts to handle changes in the objects, in the tested application's GUI and in the testing environment using Selenium WebDriver. Involved in creation of automation framework in Selenium WebDriver using behavior driven approach like Cucumber. Extensively used Page Objects design and page navigation framework for readable test script and easy maintenance for developer perspectives. Involved in writing and executing test cases using MQC based on the requirements. Performed Back-End testing using SQL Query. Developed design Specification Writing Test reports and documenting Test results Identified customer requirements besides reviewing test plans and documented the development of these plans Developed automation test scripts for performing regression testing on the application using Quick Test Pro Conducted interviews and workshops for soliciting customer requirements Performed Test execution and wrote and executed Test scenarios /Test Scripts Interacted with the technical team for the 837 claims transactions design Manage the Requirements (Business as well as System requirements), performed requirements analysis along with the creation of Test Scenarios. Worked with the development team to make sure that they understood the user requirements and that the system developed met those requirements. Worked with the Project Manager on various Project Management activities like keeping track of Project Status and Deadlines/Milestones. Environment: Java, Healthcare, Claims, SQL, Selenium WebDriver, QTP, VB Script, Junit, Quality Center 