SUMMARY Around 7 years of experience in Software analysis, Software Quality Assurance Testing of Web, Windows, Web Services, Client/Server applications and databases in Finance, Healthcare, Retail & Insurance Applications. Expert in developing Selenium Web Driver/RC/IDE/GRID test scripts using Java, Python and Test Frameworks using Testing/Junit, ANT/MAVEN build tools. Experienced in providing the efficient locators strategy like XPath and CSS to run WebDriver script in stable condition. Hands on experience in Mobile Apps Testing with Manual and automation testing. Proficient in using test automation tools such as Selenium WebDriver/RC/IDE/Grid, QTP and Appium to develop automation testing scripts for web, Mobile and client server applications. Sound knowledge on Junit, TestNG framework for Unit testing, Maven and Ant for Project building tool, Jenkins/Hudson for Continuous Integration. Knowledge in doing performance testing of service using JMeter. Excellent experience with source version control tools such as Git. Extensive experience in designing Test Cases, Test Scenarios, Test Scripts and Test reports of manual and automated tests. Experienced with SOA, Web Services, SOAP, Soap UI, RESTFUL, WSDL technologies. Experience in unit testing, functional testing, user acceptance testing, integration testing, system testing, performance testing, sanity testing, exception testing, compatibility testing & security testing of client/server and web - based applications. Developed an automated scripts and frame works using Java, Python, Node JS, Swift. Working experience with defect tracking tools like Clear Quest, Jira, and Test Director/Quality Center (QC), Microsoft Test Manager (MTM) and Team Foundation Server. Expertise in performing manual testing (emulators & IOS Simulators) & Mobile Application Testing using Appium. Experience in all stages of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and worked on Waterfall and Agile project environment. Excellent experience with source version control tools such as Subversion (SVN), TFS & Git. Expertise in setting up and carrying out browser compatibility testing environment with different browsers and versions of Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google chrome on different OS like windows and MAC. Experience in Test coordination between Onsite and Offshore team Prior experience in analyzing and reporting on performance metrics and test results Ability to interact with end users, also quick learner and team player with good communication skills Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills with the ability to troubleshoot with strong oral and written communication skills Good analytical and communication skills and ability to work independently with minimal supervision and perform as part of a team TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing tools: Selenium WebDriver, HP Quality Center/ALM, SOAP UI, QTP, Eclipse, Manual Testing, Appium (Android, IOS Testing), JMeter, GIT, Microsoft Visual Studio, Android Studio Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, XSD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, AJAX, JSP, JSON. Language/ Script: Java, Node JS, Python, Ruby and Swift Defect Tracking Tools: Quality Center (9, 10, 11.0), Jira, VSO, Team Foundation Server (TFS 2008, 2010, 2012), Rational Clear quest, Bugzilla. Frameworks: Junit, TestNG, TDD, Data Driven, Keyword Driven, Selenium Robot Framework, Hybrid Frameworks, ATF (Automation Test Framework), Page Object Model. Build/ CI Tools: Git, Jenkins, Ant, Maven. SOA Technologies: SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI, Web Services, SOAP UI Testing: Integration, Functional, Regression, Performance and Load Testing, Manual, Black Box and White Box testing Cloud based Testing: Sauce Labs, AWS Device farm, Test Objects, CI-FX Operating Systems: Windows XP, 7, 8 & server 2003, UNIX and Linux Mobile Testing: Android, iOS. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, San Diego Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Worked on distributed test automation execution on different environment as part of Continuous Integration Process using Selenium Grid and Jenkins. Integrated Automation scripts (Selenium WebDriver API) on Continuous Integration tool Jenkins for nightly batch run of the script. Integrated the test suites to Jenkins to execute them automatically after every successful deployment. Developed Selenium test scripts for identified test cases by using data driven, keyboard driven and hybrid framework. Tested the application under different networks and Internet speeds including on 3G, 4G/LTE and Wi-Fi. Test Mobile app s behavior under various interruptions: battery strength (full/medium/low), incoming calls, SMS, video calls Integrated Appium with Sauce labs for distributing tests on the cloud and integrated Appium with continuous integration tool Jenkins. Good experience in mobile testing using Appium in both IOS and Android applications using simulator and emulator Created automation framework in Selenium Web Driver using behavior driven approach like Cucumber. Integrated Appium with Sauce Labs for distributing tests on the cloud. Responsible for integrating mobile automation scripts with AWS Device Farm to test the mobile app on cloud environment. Identified test cases to automate the test cases using Selenium WebDriver and Python and Contributed in creation of framework. Performed concurrent executions on emulators and simulators over Sauce Labs and using real devices over Test Object. Used GitHub as version control tool. Implemented Agile/Scrum methods for testing approach. Performed API testing using Selenium RC Performed web services testing both SOAP and REST with SOAP UI by validation request and response for XML, Json. Performed web services testing both SOAP and REST with SOAP UI by validation request and response for XML, Json. Automated and executed test cases using Java and reported defects. Experience in Selenium Robot Framework (Keywords, test suit, test cases and python script creation) for automation testing of BO reports Implemented Page Objects Model, Data Driven, Keyword Driven, Hybrid automation frameworks using Selenium Web driver, Python, GIT, Robot Framework with different libraries. Running the test scripts in all the environments (QA/UAT/PROD). Participated in peer reviews for test scripts and test cases for different functionalities. Coordinating the test cycles, managing and tracking the test status and sprint backlogs of the team Responsible for sending Daily, weekly & Monthly status to teams & Managers. Environment: Java, Python, Ruby, XCode, swift, AWS Device farm, Sauce Labs, Git, Jenkins, SOAP, REST, Appium, Selenium Robot framework, Agile. Confidential, Redmond, Washington Mobile Tester/ Automation Developer Responsibilities: Primarily responsible for implementing AGILE framework and provided project deliverables on time with aggressive timetable which included leading teams of developers and testers both onshore and offshore. Extensively researched tools for automating Mobile testing Involved in end-end application testing Interacted with developing team to resolve technical issues and investigated software faults. Automated UI tests using Espresso for android and XCUITest for IOS Performed functional testing, GUI Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing and End to End testing both manually and using Sauce labs, Test Objects, CI-FX. Tested and coordinated mobile applications in Native and validated the mobile application functionality on physical smart phone hardware devices and virtual device emulators and Simulators like iPhone SDK etc. Involved in developing the automation script for Mobile Native applications (iOS, Android) in Java, Python, Node JS, Swift. Testing included emulator and device testing with multiple versions and sizes with the help of ADB. Utilized Android SDK, ADB, de-bug tools to execute tests and retrieve de-bug files. Wrote and maintained automated test cases and reports for Android and iOS utilizing Git for code management. Experienced in development of Test Plan, Test Strategy, Test Cases and Test Scenarios. Conducted Mobile applications testing with Appium WebDriver and Test NG using Java, Python, Node JS. Developing Appium Scripts for Native Android/IOS Apps using Java, Python, Node JS. Identifying objects of App using UIAutomator, Appium Inspector tool for Android and Xcuitest driver, Accessibility Inspector for iOS-based devices. Performed Cross-platform, UI testing for Native and Hybrid Mobile apps using Appium Created automation framework and test scripts using Selenium WebDriver for multiple platforms and cross browser testing. Worked on the Parameterization using TestNG Parameters and Data Provider annotations in Selenium WebDriver Scripts. Entering, regressing, verifying, closing bugs in VSO. Performed end-to-end (E2E) testing of application and verified compliance for software quality standards of the organization. Performed Integration and Regression testing to check compatibility of new functionality with the existing functionalities. Execute test cases and manage defects using VSO. Maintained detailed test logs and test reports results in VSO. Generating report based on the test case execution. Environment: Java, Python, Node JS, XCode, swift, Sauce Labs, Test Objects, CI-FX, Appium, Selenium Web Driver, iOS, Mobile Testing, VSO, Agile. Confidential, Nash Ville, TN QTP Engineer/Data Base Tester Responsibilities: Reviewed design documents & business requirements to learn the function and scope of the application. Worked with Business, Developers and Stakeholders to understand and define Functional & Non-Functional Test Cases for overall Functional, Regression, and UAT Testing Involved in writing and implementation of the Test Cases. Created Manual Test Cases and Test Data for performing System, Integration and UAT Testing. Validated Sprints and Builds based of cross-browser and performing various types of testing - Manual, Functional, Smoke, Regression & Automated, and User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Involved in Smoke Testing. Performed Configuration Testing. Executed Test cases on various stages of SDLC. Conducted Functionality testing. Checked the GUI of the Application. Performed Integration Testing and System Testing. Bug Reporting and Tracking using Quality Center. Checked the data flow through the front end to backend and used SQL queries, to extract the data from the database. Performed Backend Testing using SQL queries to ensure the data integrity. Interacted with developers, business analysts and discussed technical problems and reported bugs. Performed Security Testing to ensure secure login access. Maintained Traceability matrix and performed Gap Analysis. Prepared use case diagrams using UML. Environment: VB Script, Manual testing, Mobile Testing, Quality Center, JAVA, XML, HTML, PeopleSoft HRMS, MS SQL Server 2005/2000, SQL Confidential Manual Tester Responsibilities: Reviewed Business requirements, IT Design documents and prepared Test Plans for all assigned project releases Analyzed test specifications and converted them into Manual Test Cases. Involved in writing the SQL Queries. Involved in Release support - Release to QA, involved in environment setup, testing the release process Tested critical bug fixes including critical fixes and coordinated with developers in release of bug fixes meeting tight timeline. Defects were tracked, reviewed, analyzed using Test Director Participated in Integration, System, Smoke Testing. Identified the initial setup, input data, appropriate steps and the expected responses in the manual test cases. Performed End to End Testing and involved in User Acceptance Testing. Used Quality Center (HP QC) as a bug tracking system. Environment: Quality Center, JAVA, XML, Manual testing, MS SQL Server, SQL, MS Office. 