SUMMARY Over 8+ years of experience in Software Quality Assurance and Test Automation Process in IT industry and that include Insurance applications which are Client/Server, web - based Applications, Web Services with proficiency in both Manual and Automation Testing. Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with a strong understanding of analysis, development and testing of applications in the project with Waterfall and Agile Methodologies Experience in SQA (Software Quality Assurance) including Manual and Automated testing with tools such as Selenium Web Driver/IDE/Grid, JUnit/ TestNG, ANT, Maven, Jenkins, JIRA and SOAPUI. Key expertise includes testing and debugging GUI and Multi-Applications environment and automated testing using Selenium Web Driver and TestNG Experience on Data Driven, Page Object Model (POM) using Selenium WebDriver and TESTNG. Experience in Integrated Automation scripts (Selenium WebDriver API) on Continuous Integration tools Jenkins Excellent knowledge in writing unique xPath using firebug and fire path to identify web elements. Hands-on experience in Web Services testing using SOAPUI, Restful, and WSDL. REST API Testing using Java, Apache Http Client API, TestNG, JAXB. Sound knowledge on TestNG framework for Unit testing, Maven Project building tool, Jenkins for Continuous Integration. Expertise in using Rally and JIRA for logging bugs in a strong AGILE environment. Good knowledge in using repositories like SVN and GIT. Good work experience in using SQL Queries in verifies the data from the Database. Strong experience with Maven, and Version Control Systems such as GIT. Experience in GUI and Functionality Testing, White Box testing, Black box Testing, System testing, including Integration, Performance, Stress, Load and Regression Testing of Web and Client/Server based applications. Extensive experience in preparing Test Strategy, Test plan, Test scenarios, Test cases, and Test Scripts based on User requirements and System Requirements Documents for Functional, Security, Performance, Configuration, Regression, Integration and Usability Testing. Expertise in documenting defects with high level of detail, accuracy, and informative recreation steps using JIRA. Experience with data analysis, analyzing, documenting business requirements and data specifications. A good team player, detail oriented, self-motivated individual with strong analytical and leadership skills. Excellent interpersonal and communication skill. Good documentation and process management skills with ability to effectively understand the business requirement to develop a quality product. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages/ Scripts: Java, C++, SQL, Java Script, XML, HTML, CSS, Shell Script Testing Tools: Selenium IDE/ Web Driver, JXL, TEST NG, JUNIT, Maven, Cucumber Web Services Testing: SOAP UI, Postman, Rest Assured, Apache Http client, SOAP, RESTFUL, WSDL, XML, JSON Bug Tracking Tools: Rally, JIRA Web Technologies: Web Services, SOAP, REST Testing Methodologies: System Testing, Reliability Testing, Feature Testing, Acceptance Testing, Functionality Testing, Regression Testing, Agile Testing Databases: MySQL, SQL Server Test Build/Integration Tools: Maven, Jenkins, Git, SVN Misc. Tools: Eclipse, xPath, Firebug, Fire Path Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Mac, Unix PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, SFO QA Engineer Responsibilities: Worked closely with development team in creating automated scripts for the application using Selenium. Effectively implemented different QA Methodologies/ Policies, Strategies and plans in all stages of SDLC. Prepared Test strategy and Test Plan for each Release cycle. Involved in setting up configuring the testing environment with Eclipse, TestNG, Selenium Driver Developed & implemented POM framework with Selenium Web Driver Developed and executed the test scripts with Selenium and Java. Developed test code in Java language using Eclipse, TestNG framework. Developed Test Frameworks in Selenium for UI Regression Test Automation and when necessary, and potentially execute Unit Test Automation (Java / TestNG). Used Apache HTTP Client, JAXB, JXL, TestNG to validate RESTAPI and involved developing core classes Involved in SOAP web services testing using SOAPUI Created XML based test suit and integrated with Jenkins Server to execute automation scripts on a regular basis by scheduling Jenkins jobs in different test environments with different test configurations. Converted all record and play back test cases into Selenium automated scripts. Developed Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) to ensure appropriate level of test coverage. Enter and maintain defect information in Defect Tracking System, JIRA. Development and Execution of SQL queries to check the database and checking the data integrity in accordance with business standards of the company. Worked with appropriate development and technical support teams to triage, assess and solution. Worked closely with different functional team including Development, QA, Sales and Business. Environment: Selenium Web Driver 2, TestNG, SOAP UI, Web Services, SOAP UI, SOAP, Restful, XPath, HTML, Java Script, CSS, Maven, Jenkins, Log4j, XML, Apache Http Client, Web Services, TestNG, JXL, JAXB, JSON, XML, Mobile Testing, XML, SOAP, Soap UI, Java Confidential, TX QA Engineer Responsibilities: Review product requirement documents, functional specifications, and involved in developing test strategy, test plan and test case documents. Performed Automation Testing of each Build and then Regression testing on each builds Collaborated with business users from WellPoint team on User Acceptance Testing. Involved in setting up configuring the testing environment with Eclipse, TestNG, Selenium Driver Developed & implemented POM framework with Selenium Web Driver Developed and executed the test scripts with Selenium and Java. Developed test code in Java language using Eclipse, TestNG framework. Validated RESTAPI using Apache HTTP Client, JAXB and JSON Parsers Involved in web services testing using SOAPUI to create and execute automated functional, regression compliance. Reviewed the automation scripts and created Continuous Integration Jobs in Jenkins. Responsible for updating and maintaining the Jira for reporting and logging the defects found during functional and regression testing and follow up the bug life cycle. Developed and executed SQL queries for the database testing to validate specific Business Process for UI testing, functional, Integration testing. Followed Agile Methodologies during the testing phase of the project. Involved and responsible for creating Daily and weekly status reports regarding the progress of testing process. Environment: Selenium Web Driver 2, Java, Eclipse, Rally, JAVA, TestNG, SOAP UI, Apache HTTP Client, JAXB, Jackson, XML, JSON, Jenkins, xPath, Firebug, FirePath, JXL, Log4j, JDBC, SQL, GIT, Shell Scripts and Linux Confidential, CA QA Analyst Responsibilities: Effectively implemented different QA methodologies/policies, strategies and plans in all stages of SDLC. Performed Unit testing on all application modules. Involved in System, Integration, and Data & Regression testing. Created test plan, test cases and test scripts development and executed based on business and technical requirements. Created the requirement traceability matrix. Performed manual Testing. Executed system, integration, end-to-end, and user acceptance test (UAT) test cases. Involved in setting up configuring the testing environment with Eclipse, TestNG, Selenium Driver Developed & implemented POM framework with Selenium Web Driver Developed and executed the test scripts with Selenium and Java. Developed test code in Java language using Eclipse, TestNG framework. Used SOAPUI tool to test SOA based architecture application to test SOAP services and RESTAPI. Involved in web services testing using SOAPUI to create and execute automated functional, regression compliance. Developed Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) to ensure appropriate level of test coverage. Enter and maintain defect information in Defect Tracking System, Rally Analyzed and created the bug tracking reporting and summary report. Conducted quality reviews to monitor the progress of project. Involved in weekly walkthroughs and inspection meetings, to verify the status of the testing effort and the project as a whole. Environment: Selenium Web Driver, Eclipse, JAVA, JUnit, JIRA, Rally, Oracle 10g, Apache Http Client, Jackson, JAXB, SOAP UI, Web Services (SOAP & REST FUL), JIRA, Bugzilla, xPath, Eclipse IDE, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, Web Services, Oracle, Linux. Confidential, Illinois Software QA Engineer Responsibilities: Derived Test Scenarios from Business Scenarios and mapped requirements. Prepared Regression Test Suite from Functional Test cases based on Business Criticality. Executed Regression test suite against each QA build. Involved in setting up configuring the testing environment with Eclipse, TestNG, Selenium Driver Developed & implemented POM framework with Selenium Web Driver Developed and executed the test scripts with Selenium and Java. Developed test code in Java language using Eclipse, TestNG framework. Used SOAPUI tool to test SOA based architecture application to test SOAP services and RESTAPI. Involved in web services testing using SOAPUI to create and execute automated functional, regression compliance. Developed Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) to ensure appropriate level of test coverage. Enter and maintain defect information in Defect Tracking System, JIRA. Involved in Database testing, Functional Integration, Regression and Compatibility testing of the application. Checked the Data flow through the front and backend and used SQL queries to extract the data from the database Used SQL and PL/SQL for Data retrieval in Back End Testing. Performed Data Validation of the data flow from the front-end to the back-end. Ran PL/SQL blocks in order to rectify data corruption in the database. Responsible for Front End testing, Integration testing and System testing on the coded software. Participated in Review meetings to discuss Issues with Team Lead and Project Manager. Prepared Final Test report after completion of execution. Environment: Selenium web driver, Java, Log4j, Maven, Eclipse, TestNG, XML, XPATH, Firebug, Apache HTTP Client, JAXB, Gson, SOAP UI, SQL, Oracle, and Linux. Confidential Software Engineer Responsibilities: Understand the business requirement and technical specification documents of the system Gathering test requirement and developing comprehensive test strategy Test case planning, execution, reporting the defects and the status Worked with development team in identifying impact of code changes and gone through unit tests of developers Creating test bed consisting of different call states, deploying different components of the product and creating scenario’s which are similar to real world environment Responsible for product document reviews and communicating issues associated with it Proactively raising risks and effectively communicates across the teams Writing generic SQL queries which are useful for all the content teams in day to day populated data testing Performed Functional, Regression, and Integration testing. Utilizing HP Quality Center for Test Life Cycle and defect management Environment: Java, Oracle, Quality Center, SQL developer, PL/SQL, JSP and Windows 