SUMMARY Experienced Quality Assurance professional with over 15 years of experience in software development. Willingness to learn new skills and share knowledge and experience. Reliable and consistent contributor that works well independently or as part of a team. Passionate about quality and always strives to provide the best product with a customer minded focus. TECHNICAL SKILLS Charles XCode Jira G Suite Amazon Android Confluence Microsoft Office TestRail Unity HTML Flash Windows Devsuite Spreadfast SQL Perforce Jenkins OSX TestRail Unfuddle PuTTY Loggly Xenu Xpanel Jira Confluence Secure CRT UNIX Microsoft Office Charles Filemaker Pro Google Analytics PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, San Francisco, CA QA Lead Responsibilities: Led testing efforts and quality sign - off on weekly content releases for Futurama: Worlds of Tomorrow on multiple mobile platforms. Led small team of testers to perform hands-on black-box and grey-box testing. Mentored junior QA team members. Collaborated with QA team to define test plans based on weekly project specifications. Created and maintained test cases, test plans and documentation for projects using Google Docs and Jira. Responsible and accountable for final sign-off for game/server releases, updates and promotions. Ownership of testing game client updates and submission to first-party. Worked with QA leadership to evaluate and enhance QA standards, technologies and approaches. Confidential, Oakland, CA QA Lead Responsibilities: Led testing efforts and quality sign-off on releases and long-term projects across multiple platforms. Led small team of testers and perform hands on testing. Collaborated with other stakeholders to define test plans based on business requirement documentation and identify the tools to effectively test product. Created and maintained test cases, test plans and documentation for projects using Test Rail and Jira. Responsible and accountable for final sign-off for game/server releases, updates and promotions. Ownership of testing game client-server interactions, network emulation, and related testing approaches. Investigated, defined and trained team on best practices for grey-box and tool-assisted testing. Worked with QA leadership to evaluate and enhance QA standards, technologies and approaches. Confidential, Foster City, CA QA Analyst II Responsibilities: Identify, isolate, regress and communicate issues/defects effectively and efficiently. Develop an in-depth understanding of the systems assigned to them and communicate progress, status and risk assessment. Directly support the development team on defect/issue root cause analysis. Develop partnerships with assigned Studio resources and teams. Work in a collaborative QA environment, executing individual tasks and group assignments. Create, maintain and execute Test Cases to provide end-to-end testing coverage. Participate in qualitative user experience feedback on key products and/or services. Execute daily build sanity checks and key feature/function testing. Execute testing tasks through the use of in-house and 3rd party test tools. Promote improvements and efficiencies across QA and Studio Quality Control processes. Partner with QA Support groups to ensure alignment of testing focus/tasks. Confidential, Redwood City, CA Sr. QA Analyst Responsibilities: Set up and conducted quality tests for projects related to Confidential .com. Used knowledge of product to perform regression testing and identify errors and bugs. Documented all software defect via bug tracking software (JIRA). Completed assignments and generated reports for review by Project Managers and Senior QA Management. Followed-up on open issues and assumed responsibility for achieving results within an established production and release timeframe. Gained an understanding of user requirements for products and tools in development. Participated in user requirement reviews and design reviews. Gathered feedback on products in development to better inform clients and influence product roadmap and improve user experience. Had a basic understanding of system architecture including the ability to perform system deployments. Worked to enhance teamwork within the organization locally and abroad. Confidential QA Project Lead Responsibilities: Took proactive, expert ownership of quality assurance role on all assigned projects. Authored test plans and test cases. Partnered closely with the development teams to replicate and resolve issues. Worked closely across all capabilities (e.g. Client Partners, User Experience, Production, Development, etc.) to ensure that all quality assurance requirements are defined and properly documented. Assisted in reviewing and refining existing QA process and best practices. Acted as a strong advocate for quality and shared QA knowledge to other members within the group. Ensured all projects met both functional and nonfunctional requirements and map to QA test cases. Assisted QA Leadership in training and mentoring other QA staff members on QA best practices and techniques. Confidential Sr. QA Tester Responsibilities: Analyzed testing requirements based on technical design documents and generate testing procedures. Participate in the development of complex test plans as well as maintain and update test suites. Create testing scenarios, execute test cases and document test results. Report, track and regress detailed defect reports and submit status reports to test lead and test manager. Confidential QA Tester Responsibilities: Read all project design documents and test approaches to gather understanding of what testing needs were. Coordinated with test lead to ensure all required resources were available for test project. Prioritized testing activities. Executed test cases, reported defects and defined severity of each defect. Performed regression testing against submitted fixes. Tested multiple game titles to ensure compliance with first party technical requirements and standards. Confidential, Foster City, CA QA Tester Responsibilities: Performed exploratory testing for games in development. Executed hardware compatibility and configuration testing. Completed Sony Technical Requirements Checklist (TRC) for release candidates prior to release. Reported defects using defect tracking software. Performed regression testing against all submitted fixes.