Objective Seeking a challenging position as a Quality Assurance Engineer using my 18+ years of expertise, skills and knowledge and contribute to the productivity and profitability of the organization. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, BRUNSWICK, NJ Quality Assurance Auditor Responsibilities: Maintain compliance with cGMP standards on daily basis, as well as federal and state laws Daily internal Audit rounds of the Plant for Compliance and safety measures Ensured incoming raw materials were monitored in the cage until FDA approval and noted product history on quarantines until resolved Review records of incoming raw material with appropriate certification and properly log inventory for FIFO procedure Coordinate and assure QA deliverables are completed and provided in a timely manner Provide copies of audited batch records and other documents to customer as needed. Update customer requirements and customer correspondence list, as needed Responsible to support label verification as assigned. Update customer requirements and customer correspondence change control list. Identify any non - conformance efficiency, Identify unsafe conditions and report it to manager. Responsible to support label verification as assigned. Review all relevant packaging documentation and logbooks for accuracy and completeness Confidential, MIDDLESEX, NJ Quality Assurance Tech Responsibilities: Inspect and verify cleaned processing equipment and ensure rooms are adequately clean and ready for production run Verify scales and balances and assure they are calibrated on schedule Maintained log of sampled of raw materials, finished product & send water for testing Review and revise SOP’s and provide training to new employee. Assist in periodic reviews of discrepancies to identify problem areas, root cause, and recommend corrective actions, and effective improvements. Collaborate with operations, maintenance, quality, and engineering teams on quality improvement projects. Review deviations, rework reports attached them with batch records for documentation Confidential, DAYTON, NJ Quality Assurance Tech Responsibilities: Monitoring all activities that are conducted within the Packaging Department Performing periodic audits of line start-ups, and in-process, Final inspection of all packaged product. Read and understand quality control specifications, inspect, evaluate and record data of finished goods inspection results on the appropriate forms, files paper work, for documentation. Provide feedback to manufacturing and management regarding problems on, in processes, finish products. Initiate corrective action and preventive action on Consumer complaints. Support and implement of Lean concepts methodology on manufacturing. 5S is a phrase that refers to workplace organization and standardization. Ensure compliance of Dept., with Health / Safety / Environmental responsibilities. Verify of Batch Records, Lot code, Sanitization Records etc. before line clearance Confidential, CLARK, NJ Quality Assurance Lead Tech/Supervisor Responsibilities: Review QA inspections on components and finished goods accordance to Confidential ’ Confidential standards Update GMP related documentation for compliance for validation of protocols and specifications. Perform and facilitate periodic audits related to QA documentation and systems. Research on Consumer complaints on products, Gather all reports and start investigation by testing on retain samples to cross check the problem corresponding to customer complaints. Performed Root cause analysis and provided complaint conclusion in timelines Initiates and coordinates stability studies and ensures that samples are properly stored at the specified conditions. Kept records of pulling and testing of stability samples. Undergone Six Sigma White Belt Training at Princeton Technology center covered basics That of Six Sigma and various tools used for Process and Quality Improvements. Confidential, CLIFTON, NJ Quality Assurance Supervisor Responsibilities: Ensured seamless quality of the entire manufacturing process from quality control inspection of incoming materials through shipping of finished products. Identified and eliminated quality failures such as material process problems like excess scrap, variation in part specification thereby reducing substantial rework and high labor cost. Responsible for interacting with customers on an ongoing basis, respond to their inquiries, and rapidly identify and correcting root causes of the problems. Ensured the quality control guidelines are effectively integrated into the manufacturing process so as to maintain production schedules and reduce cycle times. Assisted Quality Assurance Manager in Preparing Quality Manual, Procedures.