SUMMARY: Over 8+ years of experience in Software Quality Assurance and Test Automation Process in IT industry and Experience in testing Client/Server, Web - based Applications, Web Services (SOAP and REST) with proficiency in both Manual and Automation Testing. Experience in all phases of Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC), Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Bug life Cycle and Methods like Waterfall and Agile. Experience in SQA (Software Quality Assurance) including Manual and Automated testing with tools such as Selenium Web Driver/IDE/Grid, TestNG, Maven, Jenkins, Quality Center, JIRA and SOAPUI. Key expertise includes testing and debugging GUI and Multi-Applications environment and automated testing using Selenium Web Driver, Selenium IDE and Selenium GRID Experience in Data Driven, Page Object Model (POM) using Selenium WebDriver and TESTNG. Excellent knowledge in writing unique xPath using firebug and fire path to identify web elements. Hands-on experience in Web Service testing using SOAPUI, Apache Http client, Restful, and WSDL. REST API Testing using SOAP UI, POSTMAN, Apache Http Client API, TestNG, JAXB & GSON parsers (JACKSON and GSON). Sound knowledge on TestNG framework for Test Automation, Maven for Project building tool, Jenkins for Continuous Integration. Basic knowledge in testing native apps on iPhone, Android and iPad devices manually. Good working knowledge of SQL and Oracle database. Strong experience with Log4J, Maven, and Version Control Systems such as SVN and GIT. Experience in GUI and Functional Testing, Black box Testing, Positive/Negative testing, Ad-hoc testing, System testing, Integration, Performance, Stress, Load and Regression Testing of Web and Client/Server based applications using Manual and Automation techniques. Extensive experience in preparing Test Strategy, Test plan, Test scenarios, Test cases, and Test Scripts based on User requirements and System Requirements Documents for Functional, Security, Performance, Configuration, Regression, Integration and Usability Testing. Expertise in documenting defects with using Quality Center, Rally, JIRA, Bugzilla. Experience with data analysis, analysing, documenting business requirements and data specifications. A good team player, detail oriented, self-motivated individual with strong analytical and leadership skills. Excellent interpersonal and communication skill. Good documentation and process management skills with ability to effectively understand the business requirement to develop a quality product. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Languages/ Scripts: Java, SQL, Java Script, XML, HTML Testing Tools: Selenium Web Driver/IDE/ GRID, TEST NG, Apache POI, Apache HTTP Client, JAXB, GSON Web Services: SOAP, REST, WSDL, XML, JSON Bug Tracking Tools: Bugzilla, Quality Center (QC), Rally, JIRA Testing Methodologies: System Testing, Reliability Testing, Feature Testing, Acceptance Testing, Functionality Testing, Regression Testing, Agile Testing, Build Acceptance Testing, Go-Live Testing Databases: Oracle, SQL, MySQL Misc. Tools: TOAD, SQL Navigator, Eclipse, xPath, Firebug, Fire Path. Operating Systems: MAC, Linux, UNIX,IOS Tools: SOAP UI, Postman, Sequel Pro. Build/CI Tools: Maven, Jenkins Version Control: Sub Version(SVN), GIT WORK EXPERIENCE: Confidential, SFO, CA QA Engineer Responsibilities: Worked with Business Analysts and Developers for requirements review and developing Test Scenarios. Analyzed Business Requirements, use cases and worked on automation and manual testing of the application Responsible for all types of tests like Business Functionality, Documentation testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), browser compatibility testing, Integration testing and maintain technical design documentation in Oracle and Windows environments. Involved in creating Java based scripts for Selenium WebDriver with TestNG as automation frame work. Automated Web Application using Selenium Web Driver and REST API with Apache HTTP Client, Test NG, Apache POI, JAXB, Gson and Log4j Framework. Used Selenium Web Driver, Maven, Java, and xPath & Firebug, Log4j, JDBC and Apache POI API. Worked on Selenium GUI Object / element verification is done through xPath, CSS Locators. Extensively used Page Objects design framework for readable test script and easy maintenance from developer perspectives. Performed parameterization of the Automated Test scripts in Selenium Web Driver to check how the application performs against multiple sets of data Performed Compatibility testing of applications for dynamic and static content of browsers using HTML Ids and xPath in Selenium Tested REST API using Apache HTTP Client, Apache POI, TestNG, Log4j, GSON, JAXB Parsers Used TestNG Annotations in creating test suites for validating Restful web services. Validated XML and JSON responses using JAXB and GSON Parsers. Involved in creating automation test suites for progression & regression testing in SOAPUI. The messaging formats included SOAP over HTTP&REST based clients with XML payload. Tested SOAP and Restful Web Services using SOAP UI manually. Performed Web Services Testing and XML validation by creating test case suite using SOAP UI. Developed and executed SQL queries to verify the proper insertion, deletion and updates into the database Performed Regression testing on new builds, every modification in the application using Selenium Web Driver Performed defect reporting and bug tracking using JIRA and also followed up with development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status. Used Quality Center for logging defects during System testing Environment: Agile, Rally, Selenium Web Driver, Java, Fire Bug, Apache POI, Log4j, MAVEN, Eclipse, TestNG, Jenkins, HTML, Java Script, CSS, XML, XPATH, Firebug, Web Services, SOAP UI, SOAP and Restful, Oracle, Apache Quality center, Linux, Web Sphere Application Server Confidential, San Francisco, CA QA Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle from Requirement Analysis to supporting application in production. Reviewed Functional Requirement Specifications and created test based on test scenarios drawn from functional requirements Used TestNG framework for creating Selenium scripts, for functionalities of deriving complex quotations. Created Java based scripts for Selenium WebDriver with TestNG as automation frame work. Performed regression test to ensure that introduction of new features into application doesn't affect the existing functionality. Tested compatibility of application for dynamic and static content under various cross browsers using HTML IDs and XPath in Selenium. Used Core Java for writing automated regression test scripts using Selenium WebDriver. Tested Rest API using Apache HTTP Client, TestNG, Apache POI, JAXB, GSON and Log4j framework. Used SOAP UI to test Web Services using WSDL file given by development team. Integrated the test suites with Jenkins continuous integration tool and helped build engineer to resolve the issues during integration with the build process. Developed Test Plans, Test cases, Test Scripts, Test strategy, Test Scenario, Test Reports. Performed tests for Functionality, Regression, GUI, End to End, System, Configuration and Backend. Classified the defects according to severity and priority levels and prepared Test Status Reports. Opened defects and tracked them in Quality Center. Raised defects in JIRA and made sure appropriate hand-offs and retesting takes place. Prepared defect prevention (DP) reports and conducted DP meetings with the team. Used Toad to write SQL queries, to verify quotation values displayed on various pages of the application. Participated in test scenario inspections, test case reviews, work and functional mapping & UAT sessions. Actively participated in weekly meetings, triage calls and updated weekly report. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, Apache POI, Maven, Eclipse, Web Services, REST API, Apache HTTP client, TestNG, JAXB, GSON, XML, JSON, SOAP, WSDL, SOAP UI, Rally, Quality Center, Toad, SQL, GIT, Oracle, Linux. Confidential, Deerfield, IL QA Engineer Responsibilities: Proactive participant in weekly AGILE team meetings and updated team lead and manager on status of testing. Analyzing and understanding Business Requirement Document written in JIRA and Use cases from SharePoint to design test cases Developing the Test Scripts, Test Conditions, Expected Results for one or more Test Plans, Including the Product, Regression, End to End, System Integration Testing. Develop, update and maintain the Testing Standards and Procedures. Involved in the Execution of the Test Scripts Performing manual testing through all phases of development life cycle (Usability, Functional, and Regression Testing) using black box testing methods. Created automation test framework with the help of Selenium WebDriver and Maven with TestNG, XPath, Log4j, Apache POI, Data Driven and Page Object Model principles. Validated Ajax controls, pop-ups and various form controls using Selenium WebDriver. Used Firebug and FirePath to identify the elements in the web application. Used TestNG test suite to run group of test classes and test cases. Integrated the test suites with Jenkins continuous integration tool and helped build engineer to resolve the issues during integration with the build process. Used SOAP UI for testing SOAP and Restful web services of the application. Developed test cases and suites of the web services using Data Driven Framework. Used Toad for writing SQL queries to validate backend applications to ensure accurate results. Coordinated with development team closely for issue resolution. Managing Requirement Change Requests and implementing procedures for test changes. Developing Test Cases for Back-end testing, integrating SQL queries to be used in running test cases. Involved in informing the test lead of any issues that may affect the schedule, budget, or quality of the product or the testing process. Used Test Director for communicating between developers, product support and test team members. Tracking, reviewing, and analyzing defects using Quality Center. Provide guidance to development and project teams on appropriate approaches to testing delivered products, including test tool sets. Worked on functional, regression and system testing Environment: Selenium WebDriver, Apache POI, Maven, Eclipse, Web Services, REST API, Apache HTTP client, TestNG, JAXB, GSON, XML, JSON, SOAP, WSDL, SOAP UI, Rally, Quality Center, Toad, SQL, GIT, Oracle, Linux. Confidential  QA Engineer Responsibilities: Analyzed business requirements documents to get a better understanding of the system from both technical and business perspectives. Studied existing application functionality and new business requirements. Created Selenium test cases for automation using Selenium Web Driver. Created parameterization tests by importing data from excel files using Test NG Data provider, Apache POI and Selenium Web Driver Validated Restful web services using Apache Http Client, TestNG, JAXB, GSON Parsers Validated Web Services using SOAP UI and created test suites for the functional Testing of Web Services Setup test environment and test data for both positive and negative testing. Testing application to accommodate sufficient time for developers to resolve the issues. Transformation of use cases to test scenarios and designing test plans and test cases.Used Quality Center for generating Requirements, Test Sets, and Test Plan and for reporting defects. Performed Smoke, Black Box, Validation and Compatibility testing of the application manually. Performed Regression, UAT, Integration, GUI, and Usability Testing. Reviewed and analyzed artifacts throughout the SDLC. Reviewed user documentation for accuracy of implemented functionality descriptions. Extensively worked for the development of test standards for script development, deployment and reuse. Involvement in efficient and optimum test planning with the available resources. Interaction with the developers for resolving critical bugs and functionality modifications. Used SQL Server database extensively to validate the back end data. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Firebug, FirePath, Log4j, POM (Page Object Model), Apache Http Client, GSON, RESTFUL Web Services, SOAP UI, Web Services, SOAP, Quality Center, Eclipse, MAVEN, JAVA, Microsoft Excel, Oracle, TOAD, WebSphere, Linux Confidential  QA Engineer Responsibilities: preparation of test plans and designing test cases using SRS documentation Performed Smoke, Black Box, Validation and Compatibility testing of the application manually. Ensure accuracy and completeness in the test reports. Updated the Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), with Test Case id’s and make sure that all BR’s (Business requirements), TR’s (Technical Requirements) and Detail Design Requirements were mapped perfectly and all Requirements were covered with Test cases. Responsible for preparation of test plans and designing test cases using SRS documentation Lab Setup. Automation of various features for regression testing using Java Prepared Bug Reports Environment: Java, Log4j, HTML, JavaScript, PL/SQL, Oracle, Apache Quality Center, Linux, Web Sphere Application Server, Bugzilla. 