SUMMARY More than 5+ years of experience as a QA Test Engineer using Manual and Automation Testing, Testing of Client/Server, and GUI & Web - based applications. Hands on manual(front/back end) & regression testing of web applications with many different scenarios while managing workflow with HP ALM/Quality Center. Develop test plan, written/re-written cases in HP ALM/QC & Excel from scratch & executed them. Strong knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as well as Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and the Role of QA in different testing methodologies like Agile, and Waterfall etc. Worked with cross functional teams & cross functional projects simultaneously. Expertise in developing and Executing Test Plans, and Test cases based on the Business Requirements Document, Functional Requirement, Use cases and User Stories. Proficient in using test automation tools such as Selenium WebDriver/RC/IDE/Grid, HP QTP/UFTand HP ALM Quality Center to develop automation testing scripts for web applications. Hands on Experience on testing web services (SOAP, REST) using SOAP UI Tools. Expertise in using Tools Mercury/HP Quality Center, Rational Clear Quest, BugZilla, Rally and JIRA. Exposure in programming languages and script like Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Shell Script. Experience in working with Oracle, DB2, My SQL and MS-Access Databases. Expertise in using HP Quality Center (ALM), Rally, JIRA & TDP tool for Test management and defect tracking. Expertise in Performing UI Testing, Functional testing, Integrated Testing, Regression testing and UAT testing. Experience with UAT, Regression, White Box, Black Box testing along with data setup, environment setup and coordination between users, development, BA’s and Product Management teams. Extensive testing experience on Web-based and Client Server applications. Automation Tools: Selenium IDE. Automation framework: Selenium WebDriver. Excellent Organization, Analytical and Problem-Solving skills and ability to quickly learn new technologies. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems:  Win 95, 98, 2000/XP and UNIX Languages:  C, C++, SQL, HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT,JAVA Database:  RDBMS, Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MS Access Defect Tracking Tools:  JIRA, Quality Center, ALM, Bugzilla, Test Directory, Clear Quest Utilities:  MS Word, Excel, Macros, Access, Power Point PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, NC QA Tester Responsibilities: Actively participated in testing phase of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) of application. Requirement Analysis. Developed the Automation test scripts using HP QTP/HPUFTfor the End-to-End test scenarios. Accurately monitoring and recording results in test documentation. Test scenarios and test casespreparation, test casesreview, test case execution. Web services Testing using SOAPUI. Automation Testing - Selenium for some modules. Acted as a liaison between technical and business teams during testing, and implementation phases. Developed and executed automation scripts, and REST assured automation scripts forAPItesting. Strong back end middleware andAPIfunctional automation using web, Rest/API, XML/API, JSON Worked in Production Support for Agile projects - Sanity Testing/Shake-down testing and regression testing of the Web Services for each releases. Proven ability in designing and creating automation frameworks for Java based applications using JUnit/TestNG Created and Verified Web servicesAPIrequests. Preparation of Test scenario/Test Cases in ALM (Quality Center) Executed SQL queries to validate the data in source and target database using Oracle 11g Assistance. Predefined JDBC Connections in Test Environment inUFTTool for Database Access. Executed the test cases, verified the results, and identified the bugs during the testing phase. Conducted defect review meetings for assigning severity and priority to the defects logged by the testers and UAT users. Identified repeatable fault case scenarios and reported to the development teams. Tracked the progress of the defects till the end of the defect life cycle. Used HP ALM for defect tracking, and maintained the trailing history of bugs. Creates status reports on a daily basis and provide status updates in Review Meetings Handling escalation and support collaboration. Tools used: ALM, Rally, SOAP UI, Selenium. Environment: Manual and Automation Testing, Java, HP ALM (Quality Center), Selenium IDE, Soap UI, MS visio, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle, Windows XP. Confidential QA Analyst Responsibilities: Gathered, consolidated requirements for generating performance goals and test plans. Developed test plans, procedures and performed project management activities. Developed Requirements Traceability Matrices that satisfy all required project test conditions. Created, developed and executed test cases and test scripts manually and using automation tools. Used Quick Test Pro’s Data Table, to manipulate the data sets and create multiple test scenarios. Involved in data integrity, backend, data driven, regression and functional testing Inserted Check Points to check the broken Links, Text, and standard properties of an object using Quick Test Pro. Bug Tracking and Reporting with JIRA Analyzed Online Monitor graphs generated using Load Runner to check the behavior of application. Analyzed test results and traced performance bottlenecks. Used HP Quality Center to house all test documentation and report/track all issues and defects. Provided clear concise feedback to Development team on recurring errors both on an individual and team basis with aim of long-term reduction of defects found in final release. Provided back end testing for data validation using SQL. Involved with cross-functional Team and Users. Environment: Load Runner, HP Quality Center, JIRA, Java, SQL, Windows, HTML Confidential Jr. Software Tester (Manual) Responsibilities: Strong experience in manual testing of front-end and back-end applications. Used Quality Center (HP QC) as a bug tracking system. Created Test Cases Test Plans and Test labs using Quality Centre. Prepared Test Cases with the complete description of requirements, uploaded test cases and report results into Quality Center. Performed backend regression testing by writing SQL statements to review the returned data to ensure that the correct data was retrieved. Participated in QA Team meetings and weekly QA testing reviews. Investigated software faults using the customer’s configuration management tools. Everyday attending the Business walkthroughs to discuss the requirements. Involved in UAT testing and implementation. Involved in writing the SQL Queries Actively participated in enhancement meetings focused on making the products more effective in real time scenario. Environment: Manual Testing, HPQC 9.0 (Quality Center), UAT, SQL Server, MS Office 