SUMMARY 8+ years of experience in Software Quality Testing and doing Manual and automated testing on Web based, Mobile and Client - server applications using Selenium, Java, Maven and TestNG and expertise in domain technologies like E-Commerce, Banking, Financial, Marketing, Telcome and Insurance. Expertise in understanding of Software QA Methodologies and experience in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), me.e. in agile development model, Waterfall model, and V-model and mainly work experience in Scrum model and in Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) Expertise in automating the software testing and hands-on coding using open-source tools like Selenium IDE/RC/Grid, Selenium Web Driver, Java, QTP, and Firebug. Strong noledge in Web technologies like JavaScript, XML, XPATH, AJAX, HTML, CSS, SOAP, jQuery. Expertise in Web Service testing (SOAP) (SOAP and RESTFUL) using SOAPUI. Expertise in automating software testing using Selenium Web Driver /Grid/, Firebug, HTTP Analyzer. Hands-on coding using Java and Writing Selenium Web Driver Test Cases wif Java Well versed wif Java Testing Frameworks like Test NG and JUNIT Experienced in manual testing and automate SOAP and Restful Web Services using SOAP UI, Apache Http Client, Jackson, JAXB parsers. Extensive experience in preparing test plans, test scenarios, test scripts, test cases, test reports and documentation of manual and automated testing. Hands on experience in functional testing, unit testing, integration testing, regression testing, black box testing, white box testing, API Testing, GUI testing, back-end testing, browser compatibility testing, in different stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Proficiency in Ant, Maven and setting up local workspace using Maven, Test NG and Eclipse. Skillful in functional testing using Selenium IDE/ Web Driver using Test NG testing framework. Involved in developing the Automation using Data Driven and Hybrid frame work. Expertise in getting the test data using TestNG Data provider and POI API. Experience in Testing AJAX and Web 2.0 controls using Selenium Framework. Create defect log using Rally and managing the tasks and stories in Agile Environment. Experience in designing and executing Automated Tests for Data Driven Testing. Good understanding of bug tracking using HP QC and JIRA for reporting the Modification Requests and collecting Test Metrics In order to Keep track of the test progress and test execution. Good noledge in using repositories SVN, GIT. Good work experience in using SQL Queries in verifies the data from the Oracle DB (backend validation). Experience in performing Manual Testing of Mobile Native Apps and Mobile Web Applications. Good experience in using tools like Firebug and Fire path checker for identifying XPATH . Strong problem solving, analytical skills in testing, development and automation. Very good team player in working wif others on time critical assignments. Excellent written and verbal communication skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Java, SQL, HTML, Java Script, XML, Python, CSS, Shell Script Testing Tools: Selenium IDE/Grid/RC/Web Driver, QTP, HP Quality Center, Test NG, JIRA, Rally, Firebug, SOAP, SOAP UI, Restful, Maven, Apache HTTP Client, JAXB, Jackson, Json Parser Web Services Testing: SOAP UI PRO, Postman, Chrome API Tester, SOAP, RESTFUL, WSDL, XML, JSON Web Technologies: J2EE, PHP, Web Services, SOAP, REST Dev Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall Build Tools: Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Hudson Version Control Tools: SVN,GIT Bug Tracking Tools: Quality Center, Bugzilla, Rally, JIRA, Bug Tracker Operating Systems: Mac OS¸ Windows, Unix, Linux Misc. Tools: WinSCP, Secure CRT, SVN, GIT, Firebug Databases: Oracle, MS SQL Server, LDAP, Access, DB2, MongoDB IDEs: TOAD, SOAP UI, Eclipse PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, CA QA Engineer Responsibilities: Extensively involved in all stages of testing life cycle, Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) using Waterfall, Agile methodologies. Designed, executed and maintained Selenium Web Driver, Test NG, automated test cases for regression test cases. Efficient management of Rally for bug tracking and Confluence for design documents. Extensively used Selenium (XPath and CSS locators) to test the web application. Selected the Test Cases to be automated and performed functional testing of the front end using Selenium (Web Driver) & created Data Driven framework using Test NG. Used Hybrid Framework of Selenium to get data from Excel. Performed testing of Native apps on Android and iPhone and iPad devices. Functional and Cross Browser Testing of Defined Browser Stack of the site experience. Involved in Web Services Testing using SOAP and REST based web services to create and execute automated functional, regression, compliance tests Testing REST API using Apache HTTP Client, JXL, TestNG, Log4j, GSON, JAXB Parsers Completed SOA testing using SOAP UI and Java framework for Web services testing. Created and maintain server-side integration tests - Python, JSON documents, MongoDB Tested request and response XML's based web services interfaces using SOAPUI. Experience wif Assertions like Schema Compliance, XPath and SOAP responses. Performed execution and logging defect in Quality Center and Verification of defects for System Testing Conducted Smoke testing, Functional testing, Regression testing, Integration testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Data validation testing. Used Page Object Model, UI Mapping, Selenium Manager, Data Driven using CSV, CSS Selectors as a part of Framework. Worked on UAT testing by creating new business users, setting up all the required data, preferences and required permissions. Created XML based test suit and integrated wif Jenkins Server to execute automation scripts on a regular basis by scheduling Jenkins jobs in different test environments wif different test configurations. Used Firebug to do web based application testing wif selenium for the commands and locator application. Ensure accuracy and completeness in the test reports. Updated the Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), wif Test Case id’s and make sure that all BR’s (Business requirements), TR’s (Technical Requirements) and Detail Design Requirements were mapped perfectly and all Requirements were covered wif Test cases. Development and Execution of SQL queries to check the database and checking the data integrity in accordance wif business standards of the company. Worked closely wif the developers to resolve the design and development errors and to get the software released for system testing. Carried out testing, to check whether the application is functioning as per the use case and functional specifications. Environment: Java, Selenium Web Driver, TestNG, JXL, Maven, Log4j, Jenkins, SoapUI, TDD, Agile, HTML, XML, XPath, Rally, Web Services (SOAP & RESTFUL) JavaScript, Quality Center, Firebug, SQL, PLSQL, Putty, WinSCP, SQL Navigator, Oracle, UNIX, Windows. Confidential, LA, CA QA Engineer Responsibilities: Worked in AGILE Methodology and involved in the project discussions. Worked wif Business analysts and developers in requirement analysis, design reviews, testing and documentation for different applications developed in scrum agile environment. Involved in Agile (Scrum Process) methodology based Project Planning, Test planning and Coordinating on all SDLC phases. Performed parameterization of the automated test scripts in Selenium Web Driver to check how the application performs against multiple sets of data. Used Selenium Web Driver to execute test cases in parallel on different target machines. Used Selenium Web Driver APIs for writing TestNG test suites and test cases for testing functionality wif the Selenium Server. Designed & developed data driven framework using Selenium Web Driver, TestNG. Involved in implementation of Test Automation Framework build using Selenium Web Driver, TestNG and Maven technologies under Java platform utilizing industry leading harness design patterns and approaches. Worked on distributed test automation execution on different environment as part of Continuous Integration Process using Selenium Web Driver and Jenkins. Involved in automation requirements & design automation framework, scripts in Selenium Web Driver, integration wif Jenkins/CI, code reviews, and scripts execution thru Grid (hub/nodes) on remote clients. Extensively used SOAPUI for web application load testing to integrate load generation from the cloud into testing campaigns and methodologies web service testing. Testing REST API using Apache HTTP Client, JXL, TestNG, Log4j, GSON, JAXB Parsers Tested request and response XML's based web services interfaces using SOAPUI. Involved in using Maven build tools to manage framework dependency jar files. Analyzed and log Test defects in Quality Center and coordinate resolution of defects and providing excellent documentation and Reports. Wrote SQL Query to extract data from various database tables for testing purpose. Participated in project meetings, release meetings, QA status meetings and Go-No-Go meeting. Environment: Agile, Java, Selenium Web Driver, Junit, Maven, Jenkins, SOAPUI, TestNG, TDD, HTML, XML, Java Script, SQL, Quality Center, Oracle, Windows, UNIX, LINUX. Confidential, LA QA Engineer Responsibilities: Worked in a fast paced agile development environment. Developing test cases, test procedures and test data from requirement document. Responsible for Manual, Automation using Selenium Web Driver, Scrum and System testing of the application at various stages. Automated Web Application Testing using Python-Java-Selenium framework in an agile environment. Created Selenium Test cases for automation using Selenium Web Driver and Java. Used Hybrid Framework of Selenium to get data from Excel. Performed Smoke, System testing, system Integration Testing, User acceptance testing, Database testing and Regression testing. Web Automation Testing - Prepare and execute test cases and test many features and functional areas. Prepare test plan overview and test plan detail for different functional modules. Develop test scripts for Data Driven, Functional and Regression Testing. Expert wif Test documentation, such as Test Cases, Bug Reports, Use Cases etc. Involved in test plan and test case review meetings. Prepared Test cases, procedures, Bug Tracking, Logging and reporting bugs using Quality center. Updating the test cases document according to review comments. Develop test cases on various types of credit card applications. Performed Mobile testing (iPhone, iPad, Android, Mobile Web), Web Services testing, Backend testing, Stage testing and Decision Engine testing. Testing REST API using Apache HTTP Client, JXL, TestNG, Log4j, GSON, JAXB Parsers Completed SOA testing using SOAP UI and Java framework for Web services testing. Perform functional testing and regression testing on each field of credit card application pages. Extensively used SQL query statements to verify the data integrity and validation between the front-end values wif the backend database values of the application. Extensively interacted wif developers to analyze and resolve the issues that were encountered while testing the application. Environment: Agile, Selenium Web Driver, Java, TestNG, Eclipse, Bugzilla, Quality Center, SOAP, REST, TOAD, Scrum, SVN, MS SharePoint, Linux, Unix, MS Office, MySQL, SQL, Windows. Confidential  QA Analyst Responsibilities: Prepared Test Plan, test Cases, Test scripts and Test data for the application as well as for the database verification based on the functional requirements and test specs. Involved in testing various business rules User/Customer functionalities, and Change Processes. Developed and implemented robust MVC pattern base testing wif Selenium Web Driver which cut down the script development time in half. Performed Regression testing on new builds, every modification in the application using Selenium Web Driver. Developed automation scripts using Selenium Web Driver, Eclipse, JUnit and Java. Developed re-usable function using TestNG for the Test Automation. Worked on creating test case for Object -driven framework for Selenium Web Driver. Involved in automating test cases using Selenium Web Driver wif TestNG. Extensively used Selenium IDE to record, playback and debug individual test cases, using Selenium Web Driver provided more flexibility in automating test cases. Used automated scripts and performed functionality testing during the various phases of the application development using Selenium IDE. Performed Integration and Regression testing to check compatibility of new functionality wif the existing functionalities of the application using Selenium. Used SOAP UI tool to test SOA based architecture application to test SOAP services and REST API. Prepared user documentation wif screenshots for UAT (User Acceptance testing). Developed automated script for back-end testing using Selenium Web Driver. Coordinated wif developers and record defects in JIRA to track until they are resolved. Maintained Test Matrix and Project Matrix using an excel sheet to keep track of the Project's schedule and status. Attended weekly status meetings wif development and management Teams. Reported defects to developer and discussed about the issues in weekly status meetings. Demonstrated ability to solve complex automation challenges involving AJAX, dynamic objects, custom object types, unexpected event handling. Developed SQL Scripts for Backend Testing to ensure that the data is updated as per the Business Rules. Interacted wif development and product management teams for the quick resolution of reported bugs and various technical issues. Environment: Agile, Selenium IDE/Web Driver, Java, JDBC, TestNG, Junit, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Maven, Eclipse, JIRA, AJAX, SOAP UI, RESTFUL, Oracle, TOAD, SQL, Linux, Windows. Confidential QA Tester Responsibilities: Core member in requirement analysis phase of the project Validated data between database and payment extracts. Involved in design of test plan & in test Strategy review. Involved in Design of functional test cases and execution for Enhancements. Validated web services functionality using SOAP UI Tool. Involved in identification of High Level scenarios for Functional, Regression & Business Acceptance Testing. Developing SQL queries to validate the report data. Involved in UAT Testing of the application. Supported to Automation-QTP Testing Team and executed the test scripts. Validated Payment extracts. Environment: Selenium, Java, Quality Center, QTP, VB Script, JavaScript, SOAP UI, Junit, TestNG, ANT, SQL, Oracle, UNIX, Windows. 