SUMMARY A qualified professional wif 8+ years of experience on SRX Firewall and Junos Confidential Platforms at Confidential and ISE (Identity Service Engine) in Confidential Possess thorough knowledge of Software Testing, and development of test suites and Environment, developing solutions for the customers. Involved in writing the Test Plans, Use Cases, Test Cases and preparing Test results. Knowledge on Waterfall, Agile software development models. Worked on Juniper security firewalls, Secure Access(SA) SSL VPN and Cisco ISE services A core member in handling Junos Confidential customer escalations. Actively involved in Sanity, Feature & Regression testing. As a Test Engineer, Majorly I has been involved in the testing of NAT, IPsec VPN, Security features, and High Availability. Experience in working wif Agile Tool Rally. Expertise in testing Junos Confidential services and ISE BYOD/Posture services on iPhone, iPad, Android, Windows devices. Worked on UNIX/LINUX and Windows - XP/NT/2000/98 and MAC 10.8/10.9/10.10 Environments. Experience in Feature, ROD (Regression on Demand), Sanity, Regression, customer escalations and User Acceptance Testing. Excellent communication skills wif solid technical capabilities. Ability to learn quickly in work environment, productive interpersonal skills wif the ability to understand and cooperate wif group requirements efficiently. Accustomed to work in a team environment wif tight schedules and capable of working efficiently under pressure. TECHNICAL SKILLS Networking:  TCP/IP, SSL-VPN, DHCP Networking Devices (JUNIPER):  SRX-5000, SRX-3000, SRX1400, SRX- 100/210/220/240/650 , Net screen ns50/ns540, J-series Routers (J23XX, J43XX, J63XX). Cisco ISE platform ( 1.4/2.0/2.1/2.2 Releases) Scripting Languages:  Python Operating System:  Windows, Linux, Mac Mobile Platforms:  Android, iPhone, windows Testing Tools: Wireshark, Tcpdump, Http watch professional, fiddler, CC Proxy JASMINE, Regression Manager for running regression. TIMS (Test case Management system) for handling test plans and execution of test cases for a specific feature. Jira, GNATS, Bugzilla for Defect Tracking CVS:  UNIX Based Version Control System PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Senior QA Engineer Responsibilities: Worked on Cisco Identity Services Engine 1.4/2.0/2.1/2.2 releases. Tested most of the existing components in ISE. Tested Posture, BYOD and profiler services. Customer focused testing on the service releases for ISE. Experience in working wif agile project management tool Rally. Actively participated in sprint planning and review meetings. Worked closely wif team by following the Agile (Scrum) Methodology. Confidential QA Engineer Responsibilities: The project is to provide support to the customer for the SSL VPN devices, Unified Access Controller (UAC) and Junos Confidential . These SSL VPN devices are called as Secure Access. Handling maintenance releases and release build for the external publication. Reproduce and verify the customer reported problems for the other maintenance releases. Work on setting up the test-bed for reproducing the customer reported issue for the developer to look into it and get the logs and all other required details for troubleshooting the problem. Run automated scripts to cover automation testing and debug them on failure. Confidential QA Engineer Responsibilities: QA of security features on Juniper SRX products. Functional testing of Security features like IPSec VPN, IKEv2, NAT, IDS, packet inspection in both standalone and High Availability. Plan and develop test cases and build the optimized test environment required. Script optimization, Manual &basic Automation testing on firewalls using GUI tools, PERL. Bug filing, Bug tracking and coordinating wif developers to ensure a successful release. Root cause corrective action on issues raised by customers. Customer focused testing on the service releases for SRX devices. Deploy of JunoS release for SRX series platforms to the customers. Confidential Feature Functional test Responsibilities: Handling hot-fixes. Responsible for understanding the specifications of the feature, and executing the tests based on the timelines. Syncing up wif the US and CNRD teams for regression results. Reporting Bugs in Gnats. Arranging bug scrub meetings wif the dev team periodically to know the status of bugs. Reviewing the bugs and closing according to the code fix. Preparing defect report as per severity and priority Giving technical guidance/details to assigned components bugs. Preparing the weekly reports, test status and reporting to the leads. Monitoring the test bed health status. Execution of test cases by manual testing Schedule, track and report the daily status of regression activities to the management. Attending weekly team meetings for status tracking Analyzing the test results and communicating wif the developers and supporting developments about the issues and bugs Performed Sanity testing on security features Excellent communication, interpersonal & analytical skills wif proven abilities in resolving the complex QA issues.