SUMMARY Over 8+years of experience in Analyzing, Design and Implementation of Quality Assurance testing strategies for Web Based, Mobile and Client/Server Applications using Manual and Automation Testing Technologies. Strong noledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as well as Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and the role of QA in different testing methodologies like Agile, and Waterfall etc. Worked on multiple domains like Health Care, Banking,Insurance and RetailDomains. Good working experience in automation tools like Selenium WebDriver, IDE, RC and QTP (Quick Test Professional)/UFT. Extensive experience in designing Test Cases, Test Scenarios, Test Scripts and Test reports of manual and automated tests. Experience on Junit, TestNG framework for Unit testing, Maven to build the project and Jenkins for Continuous Integration. Experience in testing both SOAP and REST services using SOAP UI, Postman and Tested both XML and JSON formats. Extensive Experience in Developing automated test scripts and frame works usingC# and VB Script. Experience wif source version control tools such as Subversion (SVN), TFS and Git. Working experience wif defect tracking tools like HP ALM/Quality Center (QC), Jira, Microsoft Test Manager (MTM) and Team Foundation Server (TFS). Knowledge of Web Development technologies in general, including HTML, JSON, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX & XML. Experienced in using Selenium automation frameworks like Hybrid, Data - driven, Keyword frameworks and POM. Experience in using Fire Path and Firebug to find element locators. Excellent noledge in writing Dynamic XPath and CSS to identify web elements. Experience in functional testing, user acceptance testing, System integration testing, Regression testing of client/server and web-based applications. Proficiency in C# programmingwif development of Window Form Application. Involved in Smoke Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing, GUI Testing, Performance and Database Testing, Production Validation. Experience in reporting bugs, conducting bug review, coordinating wif dev team in bug fixing. Experience in performing Android Emulators and IOS Simulators for Mobile Automation Testing using Appium for Native, Hybrid and Web Based mobile applications. Possess strong SQL noledge to generate scripts in DB and to perform backend validations. Proficient in testing database of applications developed wif SQL Server, My SQL, Oracle and MS Access. Generated reports using Extent Reports in html format and used Cucumber for generating reports in JSON Format. Expertise in creating Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), Daily/Weekly Status Reports, Defect Reports, and Project Reports. Good Communication and Interpersonal skills. Technically sound, Result-Oriented wif strong Problem-solving Skills Capable of working as a Team Member or individually wif minimum supervision. TECHNICAL SKILLS Test Approaches: Waterfall, Agile/Scrum, SDLC, STLC, Bug life Cycle Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver, QTP, JMeter, HP Load Runner, SoapUI, Postman, Protractor, Appium (Android & iOS Testing), Manual Testing Frameworks: Page Object Model, Keyword Driven, Data Driven, BDD, Cucumber, Gherkin, TestNG, Junit, log4j Build and Integration tools: Maven, Ant, Jenkins Programming Languages: Java, C#, .Net Database: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle. Defect Tracking Tools: HP ALM, Quality Center, Jira, Team Foundation Server (TFS) Scripting Languages: JavaScript, VB Script, Groovy Script Markup Languages: HTML, XML, JSON, XCode, XSD, XSL, XSLT, JSP, AJAX, CSS Operating System: Windows, Unix, Linux, Mac, iOS, Android Browsers: Firefox, Internet Explorer, Safari, Google Chrome, Opera Other Utilities: Eclipse, Notepad++, Microsoft Visual Studio, IntelliJ, SQL, GIT, SVN, Bitbucket, TFS, Sauce Labs. Types of testing: Manual Testing, UI Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing, Black Box Testing, White Box Testing, Functional Testing, Performance, Smoke, Sanity, API and Unit testing. MS Office Tools: MS Project, Outlook, Excel, PowerPoint, MS Access, Word PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Pittsburg, PA Sr. QA Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Created test suites for Regression testing, Smoke testing and Sanity testing. Executed various test plans for identifying defect and reported them wif details log information and screenshot in defect tracking toolAzure boards Identified test cases which need to be automated and created. Created reusable libraries in C# to test automation and build page object models (POM) to create reusablecode. Created test suites to read the test data from csv files to use in Regression, sanity and smoke testautomation suites. Configured C#,Selenium Web Driver, Nunit,Pipeline tool and involved in selenium automationframework using Nunit framework and page object model (POM). Identified test cases to automate, automated those test cases using Selenium WebDriver and NUnit. Created Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers, User defined Functions and scripting Complex T-SQL logicsfor business logics. Created detailed test plan to identify test cases, identified and defined test scope to come up wif riskassessment. Built automation framework in Selenium WebDriver using behavior driven (BDD) approach in Cucumberframework. Involved in debugging, troubleshooting API proxies using Trace tool and analyzing performance metrics. Involved in White box testing using Nunit,Pipeline and Selenium WebDriver. Coordinated wif developers and record defects in Azure devops tools to track until they are resolved. Assisted Application Developers and technical support staff in identifying and resolving defects. Involved in debugging and bug fixing of application modules. Wrote Scenarios, Scenario outlinesand Step Definitions using Gherkin in Cucumber for BDD. Validated web services manually and through automation using SOAP UI. Writing and managing automation test-cases for REST API endpoints using Postman tool. Developed multiple Selenium WebDriver Java scripts for Black-box Testing. Identified weaknesses in QA Processes, Web testing, Selenium Automation. Suggested and implemented improvements. Worked in a highly dynamic AGILE environment and participated in all scrum events such as Backloggrooming, Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, Demo and Retro meetings. Recorded detailed test cases including test steps and success criteria into Project Management tool JIRA& Linked the test cases wif respective user stories. Used Azure Devopstools for defect tracking, developed Test plan, Test cases, and Test scripts and various another project documentation. Engaged wif Deployment, provide QA Test activities dependencies and test timelines. Involving in giving daily and weekly reports to clients. Environment: C#, Specflow, Selenium WebDriver, Nunit, SQL,CosmosDB, Pipeline, Boards, Repos, Testplans, Postman,Gherkin, Windows XP, MS Access and MS Excel. Confidential, Charlotte, NC Sr.QA Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Extensively involved in all stages of Testing life cycle, Test Driven Development methodologies, Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) using Agile methodologies. Used JIRA as a bug tracking, issue tracking and project management software. Tested application using different IOS and Androidmobiledevices and Android Virtual Device installations. Performed theMobileTestingforMobileApp, identify theMobilePlatform like IOS, Android by using Appium. Involved in performing Functionality testing, Validation testing, Negative and Positive testing, Integration testing, testing manually on the first release of the application. Automated UI test cases by using Selenium, XPath, integrated wifC#. Analysed business requirements, Software requirement specifications to create test plan and test cases for manual and automation testing using Selenium Web Driver. UsedC#as a programming language and Visual Studios as IDE for automating the Test Suite wif Selenium WebDriver. Worked on Cross Browser testing through Selenium Web Driver by testing the Scripts on different browsers. Implemented SeleniumGrid to run Regression Tests on multiple nodes and browsers. Worked on Database/Backendtestingand validated the data by writing SQL Queries and experience in working on Oracle and SQL Server databases. Involved in Functionality, User Interface, and Regression testing during the various phases of development. Performed defect reporting and bug tracking using HP ALM and followed up wif development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status. Prepared user documentation wif screenshots for UAT (User Acceptance testing). Environment: Selenium WebDriver, Grid, MySQL, Cucumber, Webservices, JSON,C#, Gherkin, DOM, Test Plans, Git, HP ALM Quality Center, Protractor, JMeter, Jenkins, SOAP UI, REST, XCode, Agile Methodology. Confidential, Virginia Selenium Automation Tester Responsibilities: Analyzed the system requirements and developed detailed test plans and test cases and provided the documentation, collaborated wif product management teams in an agile environment to develop a comprehensive set of tests for web-based applications. Designed Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, TestNG, Maven. Automated Test scripts using REST API andC#. Used Selenium Grid to run test cases in multiple browsers and Platforms. Involved in testing of application using the Scrum (Agile) methodology. Involved in integration testing of Informatica mappings, worklets, Workflows and Unit testing using UTF. Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline wif Docker, Jenkins and GitHub andAWS. Developed automation framework from scratch usingC#, TestNG, Maven and POM. Automating the Test Scripts are planned, prepared and upgraded using HP Quality Center. Verified the data in database through SQL statements and executed stored procedures and triggers. Created profiles in maven to launch specific TestNG suite from Jenkins job. Involved in various meetings wif Business analysts and Developers. Mobile automation of android and windows app using Appium and Selenium Web driver. Supported the extraction, transformation and load process (ETL) for a Data Warehouse using Informatica. Created detailed QA and UAT cases to validate the quality of the application. Conducted Functional testing, Regression Testing using selenium wif Data-driven, Key-word Driven framework. Strong experience wif SOA architecture which include SOAP and Restful Web Services Testing. Tested on Web Services using WSDL and SOAPUI to check the communication between different services. Involved in testing of services using SOAP/REST services using SOAP UI, Groovy Script. Developed BDD Automation Framework using Cucumber tool and developed Feature files which includes Features, Scenarios and Step Definitions. Designed and documented REST/HTTP, SOAP API’s, including JSON data formats and API Versioning strategy. Logged the errors, reported defects, and tracked the defects using JIRA until resolution Logged and managed defects using HP ALM Quality Centerdefect management tool. Responsible for implementingLoad Runner, Performance center, JMeterbased infrastructure including Performed Smoke, Functionality, white box testing, Integration, System, Regression tests based on analysis, and understanding of the requirements, non-functional specifications, and end-user needs. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, SQL Server, Git, Oracle, SOA testing, C#, Gherkin, Agile, Cucumber, JMeter, HP ALM Quality Center, BDD, Appium, End to End Testing, HP Load Runner, Jenkins, UAT, SOAP UI, REST, JavaScript, Regression Testing, Maven, Eclipse, XCode, TestNG. Confidential - Boston, MA QA Analyst Responsibilities: Analyzed business requirements and functional documents, created the test strategy document dat define the test environment, phases of testing, entrance and exit criteria into different phases of testing and resources required to conduct the effort. Drafted Test Plan which included testing objectives, testing phases, scenarios and test environment after a thorough analysis of the business rules. Developed Automation framework using C# and SeleniumWebDriver. Run Unit tests wif Jasmine-Karma. Worked on acceptance testing using SeleniumWebDriver. Worked on Data Driven Framework and MVC for Automation test scripts. Extended TestNG framework by adding some helper classes and methods. Analyzed multiple test scenarios for POS including tests to verify transactions, product sales, and reports. Used C# and SeleniumWebDriver for writing test scripts for regression test coverage. Implemented Keyword Driven automation testing framework utilizing TestNG and SeleniumWebDriver. Performed Data driven testing using SeleniumWebDriver, TestNG functions and JDBC Connections which reads data from scripts using property and XML files. Implemented Automated execution of tests (nightly and need based) using Maven and Jenkins. Created Maven and SVN to create nightly automation script. Responsible for implementation of HybridTestAutomation Framework build using SeleniumWebDriver, TestNG and Maven technologies under Java platform utilizing industry leading harness design patterns and approaches. Contributed to the Continuous Integration pipeline running component builds, creating and running Deployment jobs on individual stages on Jenkins, and running automated and manual functional tests. Monitored the test execution in Jenkins once the code pushed into CI. Used Firebug/Fire Path Add-on tools to identify the Object’s id, Name, Xpath, link in the application. Used XPath and DOM to work wif dynamic and static objects in SeleniumWebDriver. Tested compatibility of application for dynamic and static content under various cross browsers using HTML IDs and XPath in Selenium. Maintain the scripts in using the version control tool SVN (Apache Subversion). Tested web-based application on different operating systems such as Windows, Vista and different browsers such as IE, chrome, Firefox. Conducted backend testing using SQL queries to validate data for database. Coordinated wif technical support associates to fix proprietary software issues. Created manual test cases, reviewed wif different stakeholders to validate the functionality. Attend the BRI (Business Requirement Identification) meeting to understand the business Requirements. Edited and debug tests using Selenium Participated in meeting, teleconferences walk through wif the development team, QA manager and Project manager (PM). Verified, edited and update test data in new or existing systems before testing. Environment: C#, Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven, Jenkins, MVC, Jasmine, karma, Quality Center, Firebug, Firepath, XPATH, XML, DOM, SVN, Internet Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, SQL and Windows. Confidential, Grand Rapids, MI Sr. QA Analyst Responsibilities: Extensively involved in all stages of Testing life cycle, Test Driven Development methodologies, Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) using Agile methodologies. Used Cucumber, Appium, XCode for Native Mobile Application automation testing for iOS and Android platform. Used JIRA as a bug tracking, issue tracking and project management software. Involved in automating Android and iOS mobile app testing usingAppium. Executed the test plans on web and mobile (Apple & Android) as per requirements using Appium tool. Automatestestingprocesses by developing unit test scripts using Appium. Tested application using different iOS and Androidmobiledevices and Android Virtual Device installations. Used Appium Emulators and Simulators fortestingthe application inMobiles. Performed theMobileTestingforMobileApp, identify theMobilePlatform like IOS, Android by using Appium. Involved in performing Functionality testing, Validation testing, Negative and Positive testing, Integration testing, testing manually on the first release of the application. Automated UI test cases by using Selenium, XPath, integrated wifJava. Analyze business requirements, Software requirement specifications to create test plan and test cases for manual and automation testing using Selenium Web Driver. Worked on Cross Browser testing through Selenium WebDriver by testing the Scripts on different browsers. Implemented SeleniumGrid to run Regression Tests on multiple nodes and browsers. Responsible for implementation of Hybrid Test Automation Framework, Page Object Model using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and Maven and Java. Worked on Database/Backendtestingand validated the data by writing SQL Queries and experience in working on Oracle and SQL Server databases. Designing and developing test strategy, test plan, test cases and generating test reports and defect reports. Extensive experience in using JUnit framework forUnittesting, Maven and Ant for Project building tool, and worked wif Jenkins/Hudson for Continuous Integration. Developed automation script forMobileNative applications (IOS, Android) using Appium, Java. Validated the XML files by using Altona XML spy and against XSDs which are posted in the JMS topic. Used C# as Object-OrientedProgramming (OOP). Performed defect reporting and bug tracking using HP ALM and followed up wif development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status. Prepared user documentation wif screenshots for UAT (User Acceptance testing). Environment: Selenium WebDriver, C#, Appium, TestNG, Maven, Grid, MySQL, Cucumber, Webservices, JSON, JAVA, J2EE, Gherkin, Groovy Scripting, DOM, Test Plans, Git, HP ALM Quality Center, Protractor, JMeter, Jenkins, SOAP UI, REST, JAVA Script, Shell Scripting, XCode, Agile Methodology, iOS, Windows, Linux, Unix. Confidential, Hartford, CT QA Analyst Responsibilities: Followed in Agile/Scrum process and participated in Daily Scrum Meetings, Sprint Demos and Retrospectives and next Sprint Planning discussions. Analysing functional and system specifications and developed detailed SystemTestPlans, includingTestCases for different modules present in the eThority application using Team Foundation Server(TFS). Actively involved in manual testing oftestcases for IRS Reports such as 1094-C and 1095-C. Involved in daily stand-up meetings to review the progress of the testing and issues. Version controlled the project artifacts in Microsoft SharePoint. Attended Project Meetings wif Cross Functional Teams, to discuss about the new features dat will be implemented during the respective sprints and documented them as User Stories wif Acceptance Criteria. Conducted Backend Testing on SQL Server to retrieve the data. Interacted wif developers to explain when required the software bugs and re-testing the fixed issues. Used Microsoft Test Manager (MTM) and Team Foundation Server (TFS) to CreateTestCases, Log Bugs and Generate Reports. Reproducing defects and retesting from existing defect reports. Test use case execution for new functionality, regression testing and retesting defect fixes. Performed walkthroughs and involved in review meetings. Actively involved in 6 Releases as part of 8 Sprint Cycles. Performed Comparison and Regression Testing at the end of each sprint before the review meeting. Actively interacted wif the dev team and conducted meetings for clarifications. Involved in Preparation of Test cases based on Backlogs. Involved in testing of application using the Scrum (Agile) methodology. Performed integration and functional testing for different applications. Wrote Test cases for different functional modules of the applications Developed automated test cases for all manual tests cases provided. Worked on Microsoft Hyper- V to get the data from upstream (Front- office) to test CLS and WebFX applications. Implemented automation using Selenium Web Driver, JAVA, Selenium Grid, Cucumber and Maven. DevelopedKeyword Driven to retrieve test actions, test data from Excel files and SQL Databases. Developed BDD testsusing Cucumberby writing features and step definitions. Developed required Selenium support code in JAVA for Cucumber. Extensively automated regression and functional test suites bydeveloping test cases, test suites using C# and Selenium Web Driver, JAVA, and Junit. Used Selenium Takes Screenshot API. Implemented Page Objects framework, Hybrid framework and Page classes to represent web pages. Worked on Capturing Screenshots on Failure or Pass to analyze the test failure reason. Coordinated wif application team to ensure resolution of all issues and completion of work on time. Maintained and issued weekly reports on all automation tests. Recorded and plays back test in Firefox using Selenium IDE. Involved in creating, updating and executing of Test Cases according to requirements. Involved in preparation of test plan for every product created, updated stories and tasks in JIRA. Involved in GUI, Functionality and Regression Testing. Actively participated in daily Status calls, Retrospectives and Team meetings. Defect tracking was done in JIRA. Worked wif client to establish and maintain a consistent test methodology to resolve questions during the testing process. Performed GUI smoke/sanity tests and regression tests for each test cycle, build and release. Environment: Selenium Web driver 2.0, Selenium IDE, JIRA, Microsoft Office Excel, Eclipse, Java, TestNG, Jenkins, Maven & Microsoft Hyper V (Virtualization), Java, SharePoint, Team Foundation Server, Microsoft Test Manager, SQL Server, Web logic, Windows 7. Confidential Manual Tester Responsibilities: Designed the efficient manual test cases based on analysis of Business Requirements, Functional Specs, Technical design documents, Use Cases, Supporting documents. Design test plans, scenarios, scripts, or procedures for manual as well as automation. Reviewed and analysed Detail Designed Specification and Technical Specification documents. Analyzed the SRS (System Requirement Specifications) and developed Test Suites to cover the overall quality assurance testing. Execute test scripts/cases and communicate the test results. Performed GUI, Functional, Negative, Positive, Regression and User Acceptance Testing. Created batch scripts which call more focused scripts to perform small testing routines for a complete end-to-end functional regression test of the complete business process. Responsible for Cross-browser testing and running the automation script in parallel. Created and executed SQL queries to fetch data from an oracle database server to validate and compare expected results wif those actually obtained. Document software defects, using a bug tracking system, and report defects to software developers. Interacted wif developers to follow up on Opened Bugs and involved in complete QA Life Cycles. Used MS Excel and Rational Clear Quest to maintain test cases and test scripts. Developed and maintained Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM)to ensure all conditions are covered. Performed ManualTesting to check flow of the application. Designed complex SQL queries for data warehouse testing. Analyzed the mapping documents given by developer team for ETL testing. Participated in meetings and reviews to evaluate documents, plans, code, risk, specifications, and approval process for project deliverables wifin deadlines. Involved in programming on the core product development using Java, HTML, JSP. Performed validations on Web Forms using JavaScript. Involved in Client meetings Bi-weekly, gathering the requirements. Developed test plan and test cases after analysing the specifications document. Prepared Unit Test case and Functional Test case for the application. Performed Functional, Integration, UAT and System testing on the application. During testing life cycle, performed different types of testing like System Testing, Integration& Regression Testing. Creation of Status reports and Sending the status to the upper management as required. Developed various reports to communicate testing issues the project manager. Participated in QA Team meetings and weekly QA testing reviews. Environment: Manual Testing, MS Visio, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle, Windows, UNIX, JAVA, SQL Server Management Studio, Eclipse IDE, Quality Center, Load Runner, QTP, Windows Vista/ XP, SQL, HTML. 