SUMMARY Over 5+ years of professional experience in Software Testing on different platforms and environments. Good Experience on Selenium Webdriver and creating Scripts in Selenium Webdriver by using Java. Experience in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), in - depth noledge of contemporary QA/test principles, methodologies. Efficient in analyzing System Requirements, Use Cases and other documents to gain overall understanding of the new application to determine the appropriate level of testing required and designing end-to-end testing framework that supports both manual and automated. Experience programming in Java, JavaScript, HTML, XML and SQL on Windows XP, Vista Operating Systems and UNIX environments. Extensively Worked in Quality Assurance using Testing methods for both Manual and Automation tests wif all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in Requirements gathering (FSD/SRS). Hands on experience in test driven development (TDD), Behavior driven development (BDD) and acceptance test driven development (ATDD) approaches. Experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing, and Production & Maintenance Methods using Waterfall and Agile/Scrum. Used Soap UI to test Web services (SOAP) and Done MS Stack Testing. Experience in validation and verification, User Acceptance testing (UAT) and end-to-end testing. Created Automation scripts by using UFT, Selenium and Win Runner also used Test Director/HP ALM to manage the entire Automation testing process. Experienced in developing and maintaining Test Plans, Test Scripts and Test Cases, Defect Tracking, and Report Generation. Involved in risk based testing. Documented the SDLC Process of Service Virtualization for the Client. Working noledge of SQL, HTML and XML and internet browsers. Experience in testing a REST and SOAP API's Using SOAP UI PRO. Expertise in Unit testing, Integration testing, GUI testing, Functional testing, Accessibility testing, System testing, Regression testing, User Acceptance testing, end-to-end testing and Black Box testing methodologies. Executing testing on daily builds of Android Operating System on various mobile devices. Experience in writing java Script in Cucumber Automation Framework. Excellent communications skills, strong problems solving skills and a good team player. Ability to meet deadlines and handle pressure and co-ordinate multiple tasks in a work project environment. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing tools: Selenium Web driver, HP Quality Center/ALM, Junit, SOA Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, XSD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, AJAX, JSP Defect Tracking Tools: Quality Center (9, 10, 11.0), JIRA, Team Foundation Server (TFS 2008, 2010, 2012), Rational Clear quest, Bugzilla Languages: C, Java, SQL, PL/SQL, Python, Java Script Office tools: Project Management Microsoft Project, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel), Microsoft PowerPoint, MS Access Environment: Agile & Waterfall Browsers: Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome & Safari Build tools: Maven, Ant, Jenkins Operating Systems: Windows XP, 7, 8 & server 2003, UNIX and Linux Mobile Manual Testing: Android, iOS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, NJ Selenium Tester Responsibilities: Responsible for writing test cases based on the requirements document. Analyzed functional requirements and documented the user specifications and business rules. Performed functional testing to identify various critical points in the application and automated it by usingSeleniumWebdriver. Created automation framework usingSelenium Webdriver and TestNG. Developed and maintained automated test scripts in Java using Cucumber Framework. Performed regression testing on new builds, every modification in the application using Selenium Webdriver. Implemented modular frame work for Selenium Webdriver scripts using java in page library model. Deployed application on test, production servers and managed application using Microsoft Azure. Performed Data driven testing usingSelenium Webdriver and TestNG functions which reads data from property and XML files. Developed Maven based build scripts to run SeleniumAutomation and Integrated Maven Scripts to Continuous Integration Server to run nightly tests. Used Maven for build management and continuous integration. Used Cucumber for browser based testing wif scenarios and situations. Created XML based test suit and integrated wif Jenkins Server to execute automation scripts on a regular basis by scheduling Jenkins jobs in different test environments wif different test configurations. IntegratedSelenium Webdriver wif existing API to test framework. Worked onSeleniumGUI Object / element verification is done through XPath, CSS Locators. Execute compatibility test suite including audio, camera, bluetooth and other system features on differentmobiledevices. Good noledge on chatbot and IVR. Involved in testing Web services and XML wif tool called SOAP UI. me has been using this tool to locate WSDL file on internet, create Test cases, run them, do load testing, security testing. Used SOAP UI tool to test SOA based architecture application to test SOAP services and Rest API. Performed Back - End Testing, database table manipulations of relational database systems by writing complex SQL queries manually. Validated sites across browsers and operating systems, verified the accuracy of links, visual presentation and its alignment wif design specifications. Proficient in Agile development and Scrum methodology. Executed Test runs in HPQC & recorded results and defects in HPQC. Prepared a report of all automation difficulties and test results for further application. Performed data accuracy, data validation and data integrity testing by querying the database using SQL queries to check the data table on server. Developed automation scenarios using manual test cases. Wrote test scripts in Java on IntelliJ IDEA and performed testing on various mobile Android and iOS versions.(mobile testing) Performing test automation for mobile app on Appium and uploading test scripts on Gitlab wif GIT commands. Participated in weekly meetings to track the progress of testing effort. Environment: Selenium Web driver, TestNG, Jenkins, SOAP UI, Maven, Cucumber, Quality Center, Eclipse IDE, XPath, CSS, C#, HTML, XML, Java, SOA, agile, SQL, Oracle and Windows. Confidential, CA Automation Tester Responsibilities: Worked closely wif business team, designers and software developers to understand application functionality and navigational flow. Participated in JAD sessions to identify the critical business transactions. Actively participated in daily Scrum stand-ups. Prepared Test cases and Test plans for new functional modules. Wrote Grey box and Black box test cases based on the User and Business Requirements. Facilitated enhancement and maintained the current Test Environment in Eclipse using Java. Participated in the test environment setup ensuring that the facilities, test tools and scripts are in place to successfully perform the required testing effort by Regression Team. Developed and maintained Manual and Automation test scripts through HP ALM. Involved in the Database Testing using SQL queries of the Application such as checking all the tables in the Database and checking whether the data is moving in their respective tables. Developed and maintained release acceptance tests using WebDriver, TestNG, Maven and IntelliJ IDEA. Performed functionality and regression testing during the various phases of the application usingSelenium Webdriver. Scheduled automated, timed test builds on Jenkins server to run on headless browsers such as PhantomJS. Developed Automation Scripts, Execution and Analysis Test Results using a Keyword Driven Framework in Selenium. Used Jenkins as a Continuous Integration server to configure wif GitHub and Maven. Scheduled testing job and set up the flag to run automation scripts on Jenkins as a part of the Continuous Integration process every time there is a bug fix, new feature development, or innovative functionality in code repository (Git). Set upSeleniumtools from scratch and configured various other peripherals tools to performSelenium test. Scheduled testing job and set up the flag to run automation script every time developer commits new code and make a new build. Generated Weekly Reports, Defect Reports and Customized Summary Reports. Environment: WebDriver, TestNG, Maven, Jenkins, HP ALM, JIRA, Soap UI, HTML, XML, Oracle, Java Script, Ajax, Linux, Windows. Confidential, Seattle Quality assurance tester Responsibilities: Responsible for interacting wif the business people for understanding business requirements. Responsible for testing e - Commerce multinational web-based application to improve user experience and reliability Participated in SCRUM process, attended daily scrum meetings, sprint planning and sprint. Worked in a Test-Driven Development environment and participated in daily meetings wif Developers. Performed cross browser functional testing usingSelenium Webdriver /RC. Performed white box testing like JUnit, TestNG and Web service testing. Setup the automation framework usingSelenium Webdriver, Java, TestNG, GitHub and Maven. And also involved in defining test cases for design verification test (DVT), Unit test framework(UTF), and System verification test (SVT) suites. Defined test automation strategy and test scenarios, created automated test cases, test plans and executed tests usingSelenium Webdriver, TestNG and JAVA. Worked on distributed test automation execution on different environment as part of Continuous Integration Process usingSeleniumGrid and Jenkins. Written White-box test cases based on the User and Business Requirements. Creation of automation test scripts in Java, TestNG, and Webdriver for various features using Data Driven Framework. Worked onSelenium for creating and executing test cases for functionality testing of a web app. Validated source and target data by writing SQL query using different string functions, group functions in SQL. Maintained Jenkins scripts to build, deploy and execute automated tests in nightly build. Verified backend data writing complex SQL queries. Performed white box (API tests) on Stored Procedures, verified complex constraints/business rules implemented in triggers through the backend. Involved in backend testing for different environments like System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Coordinated wif business analysts, development team and participated in bug review sessions. Worked in the form of sprint team wif business analysts and developers in Agile methodology. Environment: Firebug, T-SQL, MS SQL Server 2012, Java,Selenium Webdriver /RC, JMeter, GitHub, Jenkins. Confidential QA Automation Tester Responsibilities: Gathered requirements documents such as business requirements and design document and other related documents. Participate in Agile Scrum methodology and attend Daily Scrum, Sprint Grooming, and Sprint Planning and Sprint Review meetings. Developed VB script function libraries and Descriptive programming by using UFT. Using UFT, converted manual test cases to automation test scripts, Developed automation test framework for HP Quality Center, QTP / HP UFT. Used VB script language, for UFT programming purposes. Developed BDD tests using Cucumber by writing feature files and step definitions using Gherkin language. Used web-debugging tool like Fire path and Firebug for finding elements locator. Performed Manual Testing and then automated it by using UFT. Conducted System Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing and User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Extensively used Shared Object Repository in QTP. Worked TEMPeffectively under pressure and wifin deadlines and quickly learned new systems. Analyze defined requirements for testability. Assist wif Development's unit integration testing, system testing, and system integration testing when scheduling permits and where applicable. Maintained software testing documentation including, but not limited to checklists, master file lists, standard test plans, test cases, and test scripts. Environment: Linux, Quality Center, Quick Test Professional (UFT) 12.52, VBScript, Oracle, HTML, XML, Web Sphere, TOAD, MS Office, and Windows., Firebug, SQL Server, Agile. Confidential Manual Tester Responsibilities: Created Test plan & Script, Defect Management Templates and created Initial test plan and developed test cases and test scripts manually. Used Quality Center to store all testing results, metrics, created Test Cases, and Reporting. Reviewed Business requirements, IT Design documents and prepared Test Plans which involved various Test Cases for all assigned module/projects; Review Test Requirements, Creating Test Plans and Test Strategy documents. Developed a Defects Tracking Log for the SharePoint Site to track defects while testing. Involved in UAT testing, SIT Testing, Regression Testing and Functional testing. Organized Test Plan during initial phase of project, prepared test scripts, created Release note in Application Lifecycle Management (ALM), setup/link Test Lab wif release cycle, executed test cases and recorded results in ALM. Wrote Structure Query Language (SQL) queries to check proper data population in application table and for data verification to perform Backend Testing against Oracle Database. Prepared meeting notes on daily execution/highlight of the project and send out the reports to managements. Interact wif Developers and Business Analysts to perform various types of testing throughout Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and Bug Life Cycle (BLC). Involved wif Trainer's training calls by presenting every project's new enhancements and functionality changes for the Branch Users. Provided weekly status updates showing the progress of the Manualtesting effort and open issues to be resolved. Worked wif the database administrator to migrate & maintain the applications. Environment: Manual Testing, JIRA, X-ray, Bugzilla, SQL, UAT Testing, SIT TESTING, Regression testing, Functional testing, White Box and Black Box, STLC, BLC, ALM Microsoft Excel. 