SUMMARY Over 8+ years of experience in Software Quality Assurance and Test Automation Process in IT industry and experience in testing Client/Server, Web - based Applications, Web Services (SOAP and REST) with proficiency in both Manual and Automation Testing. Experience in all phases of Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC), Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), and methodologies like Waterfall and Agile. Experience in SQA (Software Quality Assurance) including Manual and Automation testing with tools such as Selenium WebDriver/IDE/Grid, TestNG, Maven, Jenkins, JIRA and SoapUI. Experience in Data Driven, Page Object Model (POM) patterns using Selenium WebDriver and TestNG. Excellent noledge on XPath, Firebug, Firefox and Chrome devtools. Hands-on experience with Web Service testing using SoapUI, Apache Http Client, Rest API, and WSDL. REST API testing using SoapUI, POSTMAN, Apache HttpClient API, TestNG, JAXB & JSON parsers. Sound noledge on TestNG framework for Test Automation, Maven for Project build integration, Jenkins for Continuous Integration. Good working noledge of MySQL and Oracle databases. Strong experience with Version Control Systems such as SVN and GIT. Experience in GUI and Functional Testing, Black box Testing, Positive/Negative testing, Ad-hoc testing, System testing, Integration, Performance, Stress, Load and Regression Testing of Web and Client/Server based applications using Manual and Automation techniques. Extensive experience in preparing Test Strategy, Test plan, Test scenarios, Test cases, and Test scripts based on user requirements and system requirement documents for functional, security, performance, configuration, regression, integration and usability testing. Expertise in documenting defects using Rally, JIRA, Bugzilla, Mantis. Experience with data analysis, documenting business requirements and data specifications. A good team player, detail oriented, self-motivated individual with strong analytical and leadership skills. Excellent interpersonal and communication skill. Good documentation and process management skills with ability to effectively understand teh business requirement to develop a quality product. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages/ Scripts: Java, SQL, JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver/IDE/GRID, TestNG, Apache POI, Apache HTTPClient, SoapUI, POSTMAN,Cucumber,Loadrunner, QTP, Test Director, Tealeaf, Dynatrace Web Services: SOAP, REST, WSDL Bug Tracking Tools: Bugzilla, Rally, JIRA, Mantis Testing Methodologies: System Testing, Reliability Testing, Feature Testing, Acceptance Testing, Functionality Testing, Regression Testing, Agile Testing, Build Acceptance Testing, Go-Live Testing Databases: Oracle SQL, MySQL Misc. Tools: TOAD, Eclipse, Firebug, FirePath, Firefox, Chrome devtools Operating Systems: MAC, Linux, UNIX, Windows Build/CI Tools: Maven, Jenkins Version Control: SVN, GIT PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Senior Test Engineer Responsibilities: Worked with Business Analysts and Developers for requirements review and developing Test Scenarios. Analyzed Business Requirements, use cases and worked on automation and manual testing of teh application. Responsible for all types of tests like Business Functionality, Documentation testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), browser compatibility testing, Integration testing. Involved in creating Java based scripts for Selenium WebDriver with TestNG as automation framework. Automated Web Application testing using Selenium WebDriver and REST API with Apache HTTP Client, TestNG, Apache POI frameworks. Used Selenium WebDriver, Maven, Java, XPath & Firebug, Log4j, JDBC and Apache POI APIs. Worked on Selenium GUI Object / element verification is done through XPath, CSS locators. Extensively used Page Objects design framework for readable test script and easy maintenance from developer perspectives. Performed parameterization of teh Automated Test scripts in Selenium WebDriver to check how teh application performs against multiple sets of data. Performed Compatibility testing of applications for dynamic and static content of browsers using HTML Ids and XPath in Selenium. Tested REST API using Apache HTTP Client, Apache POI, TestNG. Used TestNG Annotations in creating test suites for validating Restful web services. Involved in creating automation test suites for regression testing in SoapUI. Teh messaging formats included SOAP over HTTP and REST based clients with XML payload. Tested SOAP and Restful Web Services using SoapUI manually. Performed Web Services Testing and XML validation by creating test case suite using SoapUI. Developed and executed SQL queries to verify teh proper insertion, deletion and updates into teh database. Performed Regression testing on new builds, every modification in teh application using Selenium WebDriver. Performed defect reporting and bug tracking using JIRA and also followed up with development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status. Environment: Agile, JIRA, Selenium WebDriver, Java, Fire Bug, Apache POI, Log4j, MAVEN, Eclipse, TestNG, Jenkins, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XPATH, Firebug, Web Services, SoapUI, SOAP and REST APIs, Oracle SQL, Linux, Websphere Application Server  Confidential, Sunnyvale, CA Senior Test Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in teh Software Development Life Cycle from Requirement Analysis to supporting application in production. Reviewed Functional Requirement Specifications and created test based on test scenarios drawn from functional requirements Used TestNG framework for creating Selenium scripts, for functionalities of deriving complex quotations. Created Java based scripts for Selenium WebDriver with TestNG as automation framework. Performed regression test to ensure that introduction of new features into application doesn't affect teh existing functionality. Tested compatibility of application for dynamic and static content under various browsers using HTML IDs and XPath in Selenium. Used Core Java for writing automated regression test scripts using Selenium WebDriver. Tested Rest API using Apache HTTP Client, TestNG, Apache POI, JAXB. Used SoapUI to test Web Services using WSDL file given by development team. Integrated teh test suites with Jenkins continuous integration tool and helped build engineer to resolve teh issues during integration with teh build process. Developed Test Plans, Test cases, Test Scripts, Test strategy, Test Scenario, Test Reports. Performed tests for Functionality, Regression, GUI, End to End, System, Configuration and Backend. Classified teh defects according to severity and priority levels and prepared Test Status Reports. Raised defects in Rally and made sure appropriate hand-offs and retesting takes place. Prepared defect prevention (DP) reports and conducted DP meetings with teh team. Used Toad to write SQL queries, to verify quotation values displayed on various pages of teh application. Participated in test scenario inspections, test case reviews, work and functional mapping & UAT sessions. Actively participated in weekly meetings, triage calls and updated weekly reports. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, Apache POI, Maven, Eclipse, Web Services, REST API, Apache HTTP client, TestNG, JAXB, GSON, XML, JSON, SOAP, WSDL, SoapUI, Rally, Toad, SQL, GIT, Oracle, Linux.  Confidential, Redmond, WA Senior test engineer Responsibilities: Proactive participant in weekly AGILE team meetings and updated team lead and manager on status of testing. Analyzing and understanding Business Requirement Document written in JIRA and Use cases from SharePoint to design test cases. Developing teh Test Scripts, Test Conditions, Expected Results for one or more Test Plans, Including teh Product, Regression, End to End, System Integration Testing. Develop, update and maintain teh Testing Standards and Procedures. Involved in teh Execution of teh Test Scripts. Performing manual testing through all phases of development life cycle (Usability, Functional, and Regression Testing) using black box testing methods. Created automation test framework with teh help of Selenium WebDriver and Maven with TestNG, XPath, Log4j, Apache POI, Data Driven and Page Object Model principals. Validated Ajax controls, pop-ups and various form controls using Selenium WebDriver. Used Firebug and FirePath to identify teh elements in teh web application. Used TestNG test suite to run group of test classes and test cases. Integrated teh test suites with Jenkins continuous integration tool and helped build engineer to resolve teh issues during integration with teh build process. Used SoapUI for testing SOAP and Restful web services of teh application. Developed test cases and suites of teh web services using Data Driven pattern. Used Toad for writing SQL queries to validate backend applications to ensure accurate results. Coordinated with development team closely for issue resolution. Managed Requirement Change Requests and implementing procedures for test changes. Developed Test Cases for Backend testing, integrating SQL queries to be used in running test cases. Involved in informing teh test lead of any issues that may affect teh schedule, budget, or quality of teh product or teh testing process. Used Test Director for communicating between developers, product support and test team members. Tracking, reviewing, and analyzing defects using Mantis. Provide guidance to development and project teams on appropriate approaches to testing delivered products, including test tool sets. Worked on functional, regression and system testing. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, Apache POI, Maven, Eclipse, Web Services, REST API, Apache HTTP client, TestNG, JAXB, GSON, XML, JSON, SOAP, WSDL, SoapUI, Mantis, Toad, SQL, GIT, Linux.  Confidential, Redmond, WA Software Test Engineer Responsibilities: Analyzed business requirements documents to get a better understanding of teh system from both technical and business perspectives. Studied existing application functionality and new business requirements. Involved in analysis and design phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC/Waterfall). Developed UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS. Wrote object-oriented JavaScript for transparent presentation of both client-and server-side validation. Developed and Consumed Enterprise wide web services using SOAP and RESTful web services. Validated Restful web services using Apache HttpClient, TestNG, JAXB Parsers Validated Web Services using SoapUI and created test suites for teh functional Testing of Web Services Environment: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JSP, Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, RESTFUL Web Services, SoapUI, SOAP, Eclipse, MAVEN, JAVA, TOAD, WebSphere, Linux  Confidential, Redmond, WA Senior Software Test Engineer Responsibilities: Responsible for overall quality of both desktop and mobile experience. Led & Coordinated with offshore QA team members. Worked closely with teh business team in getting in testing and implementing projects. Managed applications through different cycles of teh project with different teams. Coordinated with multiple projects and teams on a day to day basis and making sure applications does not miss teh deadlines Designed teh overall testing Scenarios, test cases, updates to teh existing test cases as per teh latest release, executing teh test cases. Environment: C#, .NET, Quality Center, QTP, SQL Server, Windows, UNIX, Weblogic, Websphere  Confidential Responsibilities: Involved in all Functional and technical discussions with teh Users, Project Management, Developers, Architects and Test Teams Developed comprehensive test plans based on business scenarios Responsible for developing Functional and UAT scripts and cross checking with Business Requirements Created and executed test cases based on business testing requirements and test plans Extensively used Quick Test Professional (QTP) for generating automated script Primarily responsible for Functional Test, System, Regression, Integration and User Acceptance testing. Create Automated Test scenarios for GUI, Functionality, Boundary, and Regression Testing using QTP. Environment: C#, .NET, Quality Center, QTP, SQL Server, Windows, UNIX, Weblogic, Websphere Confidential Performance Engineer Responsibilities: Created Selenium test cases for automation using Selenium Webdriver. Created parameterized tests by importing data from excel files using TestNG Data provider, JXL and Selenium WebDriver. Validated Restful web services using Apache Httpclient, TestNG, JAXB, Jackson Parsers. Setup test environment and test data for both positive and negative testing. Developed test cases and suites of teh web services using Data Driven pattern. Transformation of use cases to test scenarios and designing test plans and test cases. Performed Smoke, Black Box, Validation and Compatibility testing. Performed Regression, UAT, Integration, User Interface, GUI, and Usability Testing. Extensively worked for teh development of test standards for script development, deployment and reuse. Involvement in efficient and optimum test planning strategies, taking into account various constraints. Interaction with teh developers for resolving critical bugs and functionality modifications. Using MySQL Server database extensively to validate teh backend data. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, JXL, TestNG, Agile, JavaScript, HTML, XML, Web Services, SoapUI, WSDL, TestNG, Maven, MySQL, GIT, Linux 