SUMMARY Around 8 years of experience in software testing, automation, client relationship management and team coordination. Strong understanding of SDLC, Waterfall, Agile software lifecycle methodology, related tools like Rally & JIRA. Experienced in automation of Test Activity using Selenium IDE/ Web Driver, TestNG, JUNIT Frameworks. Proficient in writing test cases using Selenium Web Driver and automating teh functional testing, application testing. Experienced in Black Box, Functional, System, Regression, Integration, UAT testing of web applications and web services using both Manual and Automation Techniques . Expertise in automating software testing using Selenium Web Driver /Grid/Firebug. Well versed with Java based Testing Frameworks like Test NG and JUNIT. Experienced in manual testing and automate SOAP and Restful Web Services using SOAP UI, Postman, Apache Http Client, Jackson, JAXB parsers. Expertise in Problem solving and Defect Tracking Tools like Quality Center, BugZilla and JIRA. Extensive knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Methodologies and Test Processes. Hands on experience in Agile, Waterfall and Scrum methodologies experience in Manual testing. Experience in Configuration Management tools like CSS, SVN and GIT. Knowledge of Testing Techniques Methodologies, Awareness of Software Engineering Concepts. Hands on experience in Test Planning, Test Case design, Test case review, Test case execution and bug tracking . Proactive and analytical problem solver with strong leadership and excellent interpersonal skills, also has good client interaction & team skills . Dynamic in working with all teams involving Developers, Business Analysts, Product team and Client Support teams for deliveries on time and budget with highest quality. Experience in Coordinating Functional, Regression, User Acceptance, Client - Server and Web-based applications. Report and maintain teh test results for all releases in different environments. Highly organized, strong quantitative skills & detail oriented. Quick learner, team player, hard worker, self-driven, result-oriented, able to meet deadlines and multi-task during project execution TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing Tools: Selenium Web Driver/IDE/GRID, HP Quality Center, JUnit,Log4j, Firebug, FirePath, TestNG, JXL, SOAPUI, Apache HTTP Client, JAXB, GSON, Jackson Language/ Script: Java,, XML, JSON, PL/SQL, HTML, Java Script Testing Frameworks: Junit, TestNG Firefox Add-ons: XPath, Firebug, FirePath Web Technologies: HTML, XML, XPATH, Java Script, CSS, JSON, WSDL, AJAX Frameworks: SOAP, WSDL, RESTful web services, SOAP UI Bug Tracking Tools: HP Quality Center, JIRA Build/ CI Tools: Ant, Maven, Jenkins Databases and Tools: PL/SQL, Oracle, MySQL PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Redwood City, CA QA Engineer Responsibilities: Collaborated with product management teams in an agile environment to develop a comprehensive set of tests for web-based applications . Worked with Developers, Business analysts and Project managers to determine requirements (specs, Test Cases, Test Data). Analyzed teh system requirements and Developed and maintained test documentation including test plans, test cases, and test data. Configured Selenium Web Driver, TestNG, and created selenium automation scripts in java coding using TestNG prior to agile testing Involved in creation of automation framework in Selenium Web Driver using data driven and Page object Model approach. Used Maven tool for teh Project management and for teh purpose of compile, run, deploy and to add external dependencies. Integrated Automation scripts (Selenium Web Driver API) on Continuous Integration tools Jenkins for nightly batch run of teh Script. Performed Functional and Regression testing by automated using Selenium, TestNG, Maven, and Jenkins. Tested application compatibility for dynamic and static content under various cross browsers using HTML IDs and XPath in Selenium used in performance testing. Developed and executed test cases and automation regression testing using Selenium Web Driver and other selenium components. Verified WSDL files, asserting files using various In-build assertions, performed Data Driven testing, in SOAP UI. Performed REST API Testing using Apache HTTP client for REST web APIs. Develop test cases for functional and regression testing. Conducted usability testing, UI testing, functional testing, and database testing. Extensively worked on JIRA for defect tracking and project management. Used SQL Queries to verify teh data from teh Oracle database queries. Environment: / Tools: Selenium Web Driver 2, Agile, Rally, Java, CSS, HTML, XML, JavaScript, Eclipse, TestNG, Restful API testing, Apache HTTP Client, JAXB, Jackson, XML, JSON, Jenkins, XPath, Firebug/ FirePath, JXL, Log4j, JDBC, Oracle, SQL, Firebug. Confidential, CA QA Engineer Responsibilities: Participated in Agile software testing process with regular QA meetings to discuss major features of teh application, test cases to write and execute. Involved in manual testing of various test cases with respective test scripts on Selenium and generate analysis report with Quality Center. Responsible for fixing and maintaining regression automation test scripts for end to end testing using Selenium Web Driver (using Java). Designed and Developed UAT Regression automation script and Automation of functional testing framework for all modules using Selenium and Web Driver. Worked on creating test case for Data driven framework for Selenium Web Driver to test with different sets of test data. Designed and executed teh Automation Test Scripts usingSelenium Web Driver and TestNG. Used Firebug to identify web elements using XPath and CSS selectors. Worked on distributed test automation execution on different environment as part of Continuous Integration Process using Selenium Grid and Jenkins. Executed SOAP based web services API testing (Java client and SOAPUI). Performed data driven testing by using Excel as a data source in SOAP UI and configured SQL queries to fetch data from teh Oracle database. Used XML files in Sending/receiving XML requests using SOAPUI. Involved in testing of web services using WSDL and RestAPI Conducted backend testing using SQL queries to validate data for database and Used SQL queries for retrieving data from database for executing user specific test cases. Closely involved with development team, maintenance team and business team regarding changing requirements, builds and releases. Responsible for preparation of Test cycle/progress reports, analysis of defect metrics & implement improvement actions for next iterations Environment: Selenium WebDriver, SOAP UI, Web Services, SOAP, Apache HTTP client, TestNG, Firebug, FirePath, Quality Center, Microsoft Excel, SQL Server, MAVEN, JAVA, JUnit, JXL, Apache POI, JAXB, GSON Confidential, TX QA Engineer Responsibilities: Coordinated with Project Managers, Development Team, Business Analysts, and End-Users for better quality testing. Worked closely with business team to understand teh Requirement Document in creating Test Plan Followed Scrum methodologies and actively participated sprint planning and daily stand up meetings. Responsible for Smoke, Integration, Functional and System testing and performed End-to-End testing manually. Modified existing test plan for teh changes and setup teh automation test strategy. Involved in writing teh test plan, test cases and test scripts for teh application manually. Performed functional, regression and UAT Testing extensively used selenium test suite . Implemented Automation process in manual testing environment using Selenium Test Suite Used build tools like Maven and updated POM.XML file with required dependencies. Developed Automation Framework for building teh automation test suite. Parameterized Selenium scripts for using varied, controlled test input values Used Selenium automation and Test NG to different type of browsers to perform Cross Browser Testing Conducting Automation Testing using Hybrid Framework in selenium Used XML files in Sending/receiving XML requests using SOAPUI. Used WSDL files for testing web services Performed REST API Testing using Apache HTTP client for REST web APIs. Reported teh defects using bug tracking tools and Coordinated with teh QA Lead and developers. Wrote SQL queries to insert and retrieve teh data from MySQL database. Environment: / Tools: Java, Windows 7/ XP, Mac OS, Bugzilla, Jira, MySQL workbench, Selenium, SVN, Maven, Junit, Test NG, JXl, Apache POI, JAXB, Jackson, Gson, Apache HTTP client Confidential, Florida QA Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in Development and Execution of Test strategy, Test Plans, Test Cases & Test Scripts by reviewing teh business requirements document, and technical specifications document. Followed Agile scrum process and developed Test Specifications as per user’s Business requirements in ALM/Quality Center. Actively participated in planning meetings and daily stand-ups. Understanding teh stories planned in teh sprint and wrote test plan for, Functionality, Data Driven and Backend testing. Worked with Selenium components like Selenium IDE to record test scripts. Developed Automation Frameworks and applied Page Object Model approach. Recorded test scripts and customized them for Functionality testing using Selenium web driver with Eclipse and TestNG framework. Extensively performed functional and user acceptance testing (UAT), Risk Based testing using manual testing. Performed data driven test & regression testing for every modification in teh application & new builds Responsible for entering, Tracking bugs and reporting teh defects to teh developers for Modification Request. Performed Web Services testing and Validated XML request/response data using SOAPUI for Soap Web Services Performed REST API Testing using Apache HTTP client for REST web APIs. Reported testing progress using Reports feature in Quality Center. Defect management using JIRA and Interacted with developers for status of teh bugs and re-tested teh fixed bugs. Environment: / Tools: Java, Selenium, Eclipse,, TestNG, Maven, JXl, Apache POI, Bugzilla, and SVN, MySQL, SoapUI, Rest API, Apache HTTP client Confidential QA Engineer/Analyst Responsibilities: Developed test cases using functional specification and other technical documentation. Enhanced test cases per requirement changes. Involved in writing teh test plans/test cases and executing them manually Developed teh automation scripts in Selenium for functional testing. Developed automated test scripts using Java language to perform Functional and Regression Testing in Selenium Web Driver. Created Automated Frameworks using Selenium Web Driver configured under Eclipse, TestNG environment. Tested teh application functionality with various data inputs by developing data driven framework and Key-word driven framework Tested Cross- browser compatibility, functionality, integration, usability and regression testing. Involved in testing of web services WSDL, XML to test data, request and response validation using SOAP UI. Performed Restful Web Services testing using API design documents . Responsible for sending teh status reports (Daily and Weekly) to teh project manager Participate in Daily and weekly meeting with teh management team and walkthroughs Analyzed defects identified and reported in reporting tools. (Bugzilla) Environment: / Tools: Windows XP, Selenium, Eclipse, MS Office, JIRA,, TestNG, JXL, SoapUI, Rest API, Apache HTTP client 