OBJECTIVE Over 8 years of experience with Bachelor of Business Administration and specialized experience QA, Software Testing of Client/Server and Web based applications, looking to work as a Software Manual/ Automation Test Analyst/Engineer. SUMMARY Expertise with state of art testing tools including HP Unified Functional Testing (UFT), HP ALM, JIRA. Extensive understanding and experience of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and RUP, Technical writing and Documentation. Ability to identify Test Objectives and use them to design and develop manual and automated Test cases as appropriate to validate Positive and Negative conditions. Able to work closely with Developers to refine tests and identify document and assist in resolution of defects before software is released. Experience in designing Test Plans, defining Test Cases, developing and maintaining Test Scripts, Analyzing Bugs and interacting with development team members in fixing the defects. Proficient in Functional, Regression, Smoke, Black box, Boundary, System Integration (SIT), User Acceptance (UAT), Security,508 Testing, Load, Stress, and Performance testing. Experience in writing VB scripting, HTML, XML. Experience in end to end testing and UI testing. Used Swagger and Soap UI for Web service testing. Experience in testing Web - based and Client-Server applications in Windows, Linux environment. Contribute in creatively and professionally in design stage and supports in design & layout, typography, color and photography. CoordinateoftheUATTestteam&standardUATDefectManagementactivitiesand assistwithUATtasksandprojectsasassigned. Substantial experience in writing and executing Test cases and Test Scripts, mentoring Client staff, working with overall team to meet project goals. Categorize, log and track new and existing defects and ensure proper defect management. And Extensive experience in developing Test Traceability Matrix Experience in Database testing (Backend Testing) and good understanding of Relational Database Management Systems (Oracle, SQL Server, MSSQL Server). Working experience in various projects such as Card process transaction, Merchant portal, Online Banking, POS system and retail transaction and customer portal. Experience of QA processes and Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and intensive experience with agile methodology. Excellent communication and presentation skills, self-starter and quick learner. Closely worked with Tech lead/QA manager and have experience as lead for few months in absence of lead. Dynamic team player with well-developed written and verbal communication abilities. Smart, focused and passionate in bringing energy and new ideas balanced with practical experience to every environment. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating System:  Windows XP/ Windows 7 and Linux. Test Method:  Agile/Scrum/XP, Waterfall, Knowledge of BDD/TDD methodologies. Testing Tool:  HP ALM/ HP Quality Center (QC), JIRA, Git, Rally, Bugzilla, IBM Clear Quest, Created Key word driven Framework for regression test (Excel based), HP Quick Test Professional (QTP)/ Unified Functional Testing (UFT)Databases:  SQL Server 2005/2008, Oracle 10g/11g, MSSQL Server. Language: Visual Basic, VB Script, C++, C#, .Net. Networking:  HTML, XML, HTTP, FTP, TCP/IP Application Server:  IIS. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Boston, MA Quality Assurance Engineer Responsibilities: Working in an Ad tech where building different categories (Link, Single, Carousel, Lead Gen Ad, RTB) of Ads for Face book, Instagram and Twitter to verify the Ad builder. Performing to push the Ads to the Channel and verifying they are activated successfully and displaying properly. Creating Graph Call API to verify the Ads. Building different Strategy Groups and Budget Pools to build valid Ad types. Deploying the code when any changes are made in Master. Designing solutions that are able to scale and to support a real-time reporting infrastructure with zero planned downtime. Involve Developing highly distributed, concurrent, and reliable systems that can scale to support millions of dollars in ad spend. Participating in design and code reviews with team members. Ensuring Code quality by use of unit, integration and QA testing. Collaborating with QA team, developers, and product managers to create test plans for upcoming features. Ensure code quality by executing manual test plans. Find, log, and verify bug fixes. Creating high volume of test cases and executing them to Smoke, Sanity, Functional, System, and User Acceptance testing and huge volume of Regression and end to end testing. Creating different SQL queries from scratch, to verify the Data storing and displaying correctly. Experienced and Involved with agile methodology and attended daily stand up meetings (Scrum) and Sprint planning, Retro and demo planning meetings. Confidential, Atlanta, Georgia Software Test Engineer Responsibilities: Working with Test Project Manager to manage the testing deliverables; activates and issues with the project. Analyzing Testing efforts of Requirements and Test Cases to ensure quality and testability Developing and documenting Test Cases for verifying the system meets the intent of the design of the application. Preparing of Test Plan and analyze integration system impacts. Initiated Change Requests (CRs). Categorize, track and triage new and existing defects to ensure error free and defect free product. Experience working with version control system to track the changes in functionalities. Executing Manually Functional and Integration Test Cases; ensuring the traceability between Requirements and Test Cases, and Validated test execution. Recording defects in Quality Center and, participated in defect resolution efforts, and ensured project requirements, test cases, and testing documents are loaded into ALM Validating test cases and requirements to ensure the system performed as designs. Created test plan based on the requirements, created the test cases and uploaded in HP ALM. Generating different type of graphs, analyzed the result, created the report and published the report by Using HP ALM. Executing the test cases, reported defects and provided test cases execution status for the required cycle. Performing different testing from smoke testing, regression testing. Performing Sanity, Functional, Security, System, and User Acceptance testing and end to end testing. Created different SQL queries from scratch, Joins, Inner Join, Outer join, Distinct, Union and Union All. Efficiently worked in a team with agile methodology and attended daily stand up meetings (Scrum) and Sprint planning Meeting. Web Service testing using Soap UI and Swagger. Using Unified Functional Testing (UFT) to automate function for the web application and involve creating Framework for the Regression testing. Preparing test summary reports to communicate the results of testing effort to higher management. Experienced with agile methodology and attended daily stand up meetings (Scrum) and Sprint planning, Retro and demo planning meetings Confidential, Minneapolis, Minnesota Automation Test Engineer Responsibilities: Analyzed Business Requirement Specification (BRS), Software Requirement Specification (SRS) and User Requirement Document (URD). Involved to develop Test Schedule and Test Approach artifact with resource requirements and time estimates. InvolvedOnlineBankingimplementations, working different and complex modules Involved to designed and developed Test Scenario/Test Cases/Test steps for various Business Services/methods covering both positive and negative testing requirements. Mapped system requirements with Test cases, ensured traceability of Test Cases back to the Business Requirements using HP ALM. Performed Manual Testing of Web-based and Client-server enterprise applications and used HP ALM for test management. Created test plan based on the requirements, created the test cases and uploaded in HP ALM. Generated different type of graphs, analyzed the result, created the report and published the report by Using HP ALM. Executed the test cases, reported defects and provided test cases execution status for the required cycle. Performed different testing from smoke testing, regression testing. Performed Sanity, Functional, Security, System, and User Acceptance testing and end to end testing. Tested the Application in different Web Browsers and on Multiple Platforms-UNIX, Windows. Logged defect upon find and send them to developer for fixing. Identified the severity and priority of a defect and take action accordingly. Performed data validation testing. CoordinateoftheUATTestteam&standardUATDefectManagementactivitiesand assistwithUATtasksandprojectsasassigned. Used SQL queries to extract data from MS SQL Server databases Used Unified Functional Testing (UFT) to automate function for the web application. Analyzed the functionality needs to be automated based on the manual test cases. Used ODBC connection to connect with database and created Custom Functions for the functionality using Unified Functional Testing (UFT). Scheduled the script execution, published results and reported defects as required in HP ALM. Involved with backend testing using SQL database and verified if the data displaying is correct. Worked in Agile environment and attended daily stand up meetings (Scrum) and weekly Project Status Meeting with Development team and QA Manager, and worked closely with QA Manager to define Test Scope, Gap Analysis, Risk, Dependency and Constraints. Developed and documented effective test procedures which effectively directed other's work. Prepared minutes of meetings and test summary reports to communicate the results of testing effort to higher management. Performed with agile methodology and attended daily stand up meetings (Scrum) and Sprint planning, Retro and demo planning meetings Confidential, Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois Software Test Engineer Responsibilities: Analyzed the business requirements and involve in the review discussions. Participated in high level design sessions. Participated in the QA activities for various releases in the Project. Performed System and Integration Testing. Drafted test cases based on Functional Specifications and System Specifications. Prepared of Test Plan and analyze integration system impacts. Involved in Manual Testing of the application for Negative and Positive scenarios. Mentored the team members with business functionality. Performed the Regression Testing to make sure that the bug has been fixed and the application was running properly. Performed Security Testing to ensure security requirement are meet accordingly. Performed Batch Reporting test, Perform UAT /AUT Testing. Performed Work Flow test to see whether it meet the work flow requirement according to the requirements. Performed the data validation test. Performed SQL connection to verify different Data table including data by SQL command. Extensively involved in executing, analyzing and verifying test results and worked with developers to resolve issues. Performed Atlassian tool administration knowledge on JIRA and Confluence. Involved in customizing JIRA projects with various schemas, complex workflows, screen schemes, permission schemes, and notification schemes required and users while working in a JIRA environment. Constructed custom dashboards using various filter types in JIRA. Involved work with JIRA filters, reporting, dashboards, workflows, fields. Wrote custom JQL (Jira Query Language). Involved to construct Confluence pages and integrate JIRA projects with Confluence pages. Analyzed Atlassian installations, migrations, and plugin installation. Engaged with end-users to capture and document functional and operational requirements. Communicated project business issues to appropriate business leadership groups. Master Object Repository is maintained in the central repository and changes are made to it for every version. Wrote SQL statements to extract Data and verified the output Data of the reports. Prepared Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) to establish traceability between requirements and test cases. Modified and maintained test cases due to changes in the requirements. Detected, reported and classified bugs in JIRA. Conducted internal and external reviews as well as formal walkthroughs, and participated in status meetings. Expertise with agile methodology and attended daily stand up meetings (Scrum) and Sprint planning, Retro and demo planning meetings Confidential, Wayne, New Jersey QA Analyst Responsibilities: Analyzed Business and System Requirements and interacted with users and developers. Reviewed business manuals and requirement document (BRD) in order to summarize system-specific business rules and other operating conditions. Wrote Test Plans from a variety of documentation including Requirements, Vision, Use-case and User Help/Tutorial documentation. Created Test scenarios, Test scripts and Test cases, corresponding to the test requirements in order to maximize verification coverage of system variables. Created the test cases and Requirements and exported in HP Quality Center (QC) and ensured the Test Coverage. Prepared Testing needs, Test Strategies, Test Reports and Test Matrix. Performed Manual, Functional, Regression, Positive and Negative testing. Preformed Bug tracking system for defect management. Updated Quality Center to ensure efficient documentation of QA activities. Managed Defect tracking process, which included prioritizing bugs, assigning bugs and verifying “bug-fixes” using Rational Clear Quest. Participated in design enhancement reviews and submitted reports on the progress of the testing effort. Executed SQL statements to verify that data on GUI and checked the accuracy in the database tables. Created, executed and updated automated test scripts using HP Quick Test Pro. Communicated defects encountered during regression test and followed-up with developers until all issues were resolved. Experienced with agile methodology and attended daily stand up meetings (Scrum) and Sprint planning, Retro and demo planning meetings.