PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY: Over 8+ years of technical extensive experience in developing Client - Server and Web-based n-tier Architecture applications for windows and web based technology. Professional level experience in design, development and implementation of Internet/Intranet applications using C#.NET, ASP.NET MVC, VB.NET, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, AJAX, IIS, HTML, XHTML, VB Script, Java Script, JQuery, AngularJS, React JS, XML, UML and PL/SQL, SQL Server ( 2005/2008/2012 ). Experienced in CMMI, Agile Software Development, Waterfall cycle, Rapid Application Development (RAD) and Database & Test-Driven Development (TDD) methodologies. Experience in Application Blocks and Design Patterns, Microsoft Windows Communication. Experience in developing Web Applications using AJAX controls, Telerik Controls and cross browser functionalities and Web Services. Expertise in designing ASP.NET based Graphical User Interfaces with CSS, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Marionette JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, Multithreading and HTML, HTML5. Proficient with Angular JS features MVC pattern, Templates and Two-way data binding. Proficient in developing N-tier distributed SOAP based services using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF). Expertise in Client/Server (Win Forms) and Web based (Web Forms, ASP.NET) application development. Experience in Windows Workflow Foundation (WF) and Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF). Good experience in configuring WCF applications for different bindings and configuring s for WCF applications. Experience in developing and updating a web page quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, JavaScript and JQuery, Angular JS with the webpage cross browser compatibility. Expertise in implementing Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Concepts including Inheritance, Abstraction, Encapsulation and Polymorphism. Expertise in creating MVC applications, Web Forms, Win Forms, User Controls, Custom controls. Hands on experience with SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Integrating System (SSIS) using SQL and DB2. Applied advanced HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces using material design components inPolymerJS. Experience in developing rich, uniformed User Interface using CSS, Master pages, Themes, AJAX Controls, and Web parts, JQUERY, AngularJS, PolymerJS. Excellent experience in implementing Web Service, WCF, WPF, Web API 2.0, REST/SOAP Serviceswhich communicate data in a both XML & JSON. Experience in design and implementation of services using WCF\SOAP\REST, creating REST services using ASP.NET Web API. Good experience in using Supply Chain Management Techniques. Good experience in writing SQL stored procedures, Views, Triggers Functions and T-SQL programming. Excellent understanding of relational database concepts, including normalization, referential integrity, joining tables, SQL, DDL and DML. Experience in implementing error handling, trouble shooting, and exception management, tracing and logging features. Strong .Net skills and object oriented design experience, including working experience of core .Net libraries and WCF, design patterns. Experience in XML, XSLT, User Controls, Custom Controls, SOAP, WSDL, Web Services, Validation Controls, Authentications like windows authentication and forms authentication. Experience in using Source Code Version Control Systems like MS Visual Source Safe (VSS) and TFS (Team- Foundation Server), GIT. Extensively worked on Entity Framework generating ORM Models and integrating them through E-SQL and LINQ to Entities to massage the data. Experience in handling big data with different data sources like MongoDB, MySQL and Elastic Search. Experience of developing reports using Crystal Reports and SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services). Experience with Unit and Integration Testing by using NCoverage tool, VS Automated Unit Testing Framework and NUnit testing. Also Load testing and Performance testing. Good Experience in development and migration of applications to windows Azure platform. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Application: ASP.NET, VB.NET, Silver light, MVC, ADO.Net, Entity Framework, NHibernate, IIS, WINFORMS, Web Forms, HTML5, CSS, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS. Databases: SQL Server (2012, 2008, 2005, 2000), PL/SQL, TOAD, Oracle (10g/11g/12c). Languages: C, C++, C#, PHP, VC++, VB.NET Middleware: Web Services, WCF, SOAP, REST. Application Development Tools: Team Foundation Server (TFS), MS Office, Visual Studio.Net Ultimate/12, SharePoint Designer, BizTalk Server Microsoft Technologies: .NET Framework (4.5, 4.0, 3.5, 3.0, 2.0, 1.1 & 1.0), XAML, LINQ, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, XML. Development IDE: Visual Studio.NET (2013, 2010, 2008, 2005, 2003), Expression Blend Operating Systems: Windows 98/NT/2000/XP, Unix Reporting Tools: SQL Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Reports 8.0 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential - Denver, CO/Jersey City, NJ Sr.Net Developer/UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirements gathering, Designing, Programming, Testing and Documentation of various projects. Coordinated with the Business Analysts and conducted feedback sessions with the Associates to understand the requirements of the user interface layout of the web application. Participated in discussions with clients and Followed Agile/Scrum methodology with 3week sprint involved in daily Standup Meetings, Status Meetings, Retrospective Meetings, Sprint Grooming, and Code Review Meetings. Involved in the development of the entire Front-end part of the system, using Polymer JS framework (which means Typescript, HTML5, and CSS3), JSON. Coded dynamic and browser compatibleUIweb pages using JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, JQuery, Ajax and responsive design in MVC environment. Successfully handled JSON/XML data and carried out XML parsing for form submissions and DOM manipulation. Created and consumed Web APIs Services Methods to access data from the database and from the external systems. Responsible for development of the web pages from mock- ups. Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing Polymer JS, JavaScript API. Involved in developing HTML5 and Polymer JS for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms. Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Polymer JS. Responsible for all client sideUIValidation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using jQuery, jQueryUIand Polymer JS. Created pages for Login using single sign on, main page containing favorites and page for continuous integration configuration. Created animation effects during the data load, waiting for the Ajax response using Polymer JS. Interact with other developers and end users to design and implement new features throughout the framework. Debugging using firebug & webdevelopertools on Chrome, Firefox and Internet Explorer. Prototyped several versions of possibleUIapproach to provide choices to the business. Used jQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes. Used jQuery, a cross browser JavaScript library to dynamically update the page content on the client side. Developed unit test cases and functional test cases using Jasmine framework. Improved the performance and response time of the application by implementing AJAX. Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout). Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties. Successfully implemented Auto Complete/Auto Suggest functionality using Ajax, JQuery, Web Service call and JSON. Developed dynamic e-mails using JavaScript, and hand coding of HTML5 and CSS3. Collaborated with team members in design, analysis, coding, testing, and website review. Coordinated with the business on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get the approval from business on the design changes. Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues. Involved in pushing the code to Git hub repository and participated in the code reviews with otherdevelopersand improved the code quality of the code based on the review comments. Ensured site design integrity and quality control consistency throughout the project's lifecycle. Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links. Environment: Polymer JS, Node JS, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, JQuery, TypeScript, JSON, AJAX, Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, SQL server management studio 2016, Version Control-Git, Jasmine and Karma, IIS 7.0, MVC 5, MS Office 2016. Confidential - Raleigh, NC Sr.Net Developer/UI Developer Responsibilities: Actively involved in Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) starting from Requirements gathering, feasibility analysis, requirement specification document, demonstrate prototype, design distributed architecture using various tiers like presentation, service etc. Code, test and support of .NET web applications usingASP.NET C#, .Net Framework, MVC design patterns, GUI, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Backbone JS, Marionette JS, JavaScript, and Entity Framework. ImplementedMarionette JSwhich is a composite application library for Backbone.jsin order to simplify the large scale JavaScript applications. Involved in creating rich and interactive UI using CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Backbone JS and Marionette JS and used RESTful in the Backbone JS page with Web Api. Client Side User Interface is implement using HTML5, CSS3, React Js and Bootstrap. Implement Presentation layer inASP.NETusing MVC views, multiple Layouts, Partial Views, Strongly typed Views, Razor view engine, Bootstrap, HTML helpers and different CSS. Developing web presentation layer consuming content developed by marketing using ASP.NET. Develop dynamic features for a healthcare application supporting thousands of international users. Constructed with Backbone JS, Marionette JS and React JS. Used MVVM frameworks, Marionette JSand Backbone Js for responsive and dynamic UI. Effectively used React Js for client side validation and client side behavior. Developed MDI applications using Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) with integrated special effects into several control elements using Prism Library 5.0. Use Ajax Control Tool kit to enhance rich web UI, to consume web services or REST services. Implement caching, bundling to optimize performance. Worked on the implementation of WCF services related functionalities State management using sessions and cookies. Custom Routing for multiple URL patterns, Areas for proper organization, Action Filters for logging mechanism. Applied Multithreading techniques for creating high performance applications. Created maintainable apps using dependency injection to manage components dependencies lifetimes. Involved in NUNIT unit testing and successful integration of modules and multiple layers in system. Responsible for UI developments and custom views using MVC, HTML5, AJAX to create responsive web pages. Define Domain Entities and Relationships using Microsoft Entity Framework Code First approach. Implement CRUD operations using LINQ to Entities and migrations when models change. Worked on open source databases like MongoDB to handle big data problems. Create DAL abstraction layer through implementing Repository. Create complex stored procedures, views, functions to support the data needs of service tier and intranet portal, defined and executed Unit tests using MS Test. Responsible for developing WCF Service Libraries to exchange data between clients and server. Implement Fault contract and Data contract for WCF service. Implemented inter process communication between C# and Python using Python Scripts. Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) as a source code repository and version controlling. Used of XML, XSL & XSLT for developing various reports and export to excel features. Developed a defined request-response message system, typically expressed in JSON or XML, which is exposed via the web - most commonly by means of an HTTP-based web server by a server-side Asp.NET web API, used Dependency Injection for Loosely coupled Architecture. Deploy builds to through Azure, troubleshooting and debugging issues as they arise. Worked on major modules like Users, Roles, Entities, Entity Types, Pricing Records and Reports. Created Benchmarked Items, Active Pricing Records, Revision History, etc., reports using SQL Server Reporting Services(SSRS) and configured RESTful services utilizing Web API framework. Environment: C# .NET, ASP.NET, MVC, Web API, React JS, Backbone JS, Marionette JS, HTML5, MVVM, WPF, CSS, Ajax, Azure, .NET Framework 4.5, Visual Studio 2013, XML, XSL, NUNIT, JavaScript, SQL Server 2012, MongoDB, SSRS, Entity Framework, WCF, IIS, Team Foundation Server(TFS). Confidential - SAN JOSE, CA SR. .NET DEVELOPER Responsibilities: Involved in initiation, eliciting, analyzing, recording requirements, design, development, implementation, testing, and maintenance of the project in SDLC environment. Designing and Implementing Interfaces and Classes using Object Oriented Programming Structure and Design Patterns. Developed application using C#, ASP.NET MVC, HTML, AJAX, SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, Entity Framework from new development and VB6 Applications and Cobol Applications. Implementing Client side validations using AngularJS, JSON and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level. Responsible in design and development of responsive WPF UI built using MVVM pattern. Built Single page web application using Angular JS. Enabled server-side paging, filtering and sorting on Kendo UI Data Grid using Asp.Net MVC framework and Web API as the interface with the SQL Azure Database and SQL Server Database. Developed the Expert advice Web User Interface using AJAX technology to enhance the visual. appearance to avoid the flickering effects across server post backs. Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobiletext and voice messaging app and its cloud backend. Responsible for UI developments and custom views using MVC Razor and ASCX, HTML, jQuery, XML and CSS which interacts with Business layer objects and contents from external source followed agile software development scrum. Designing and Developing Enterprise Framework Assemblies for Data Access, Exception Handling, Logging and Session Management etc. Developed and consumed WCF Web Service to access data layer components. Used TFS for source configuration management. Developed system services SOA application platform for use by all web applications utilizing WCF services (web services) and the ASP.Net provider model. Responsible for designing, developing and implementing solutions to meet global and local legal/business requirements. Work collaboratively with business owners to assist in development of Business Object reports. Tasks including requirement gathering, development, testing and maintenance. Implementing maintenance screen, check entry, tracking the checks by funds and judges payments, implementing check deposit process and records court and judge payer amount. Installing, developing and deploying on application/web servers such as IIS administration 8.0 in windows 2008 web server and Web Processing Service (WPS). Designed and implemented Data access layers (model) using LINQ for XML Data and multi-user interface Used XML, XSLT and defined XML Schema. Designed various web forms using Master Pages for judges and courts, CSS, skins and themes in Worked on .NET framework 4.0/Visual Studio 2008 Coding and Tuning the queries, Stored procedures and functions, Triggers using PL/SQL Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET MVC Framework from visual basic (VB6) Application (C#.NET, Entity Framework). Custom .Net Development involving full life-cycle creation of all new enterprise applications using Windows Azure framework and publishing along with SQL Management Studio Optimized data access (Entity Framework) statements for more performance and efficiency. Environment: .Net Frame Work 3.5/4.0, MS Visual Studio .Net 2008/2010, VB.NET, C#.Net, MVC, Oracle DB, ASP .NET, ADO.Net, WPF, MVVM, Angular JS, Backbone JS, SQL Server 2005/2008, CSS, Entity Framework 6, XML, Site Core, IIS, JQuery, JavaScript, Windows Servers 2008, Ajax Toolkit Controls and SOAP/WSDL/ WCF, TFS. Confidential - Rosemont, IL .NET UI Developer Responsibilities: Strong experience in Agile Methodology, involved in scrum meetings, gathering and preparing the requirements from clients for product design and enhancements. Involved in developing applications in C# and .Net Framework 4.0 to meet the business requirements using Visual Studio.NET 2012. Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#.NET. Evaluated Supply Chain processes and support teams to improve delivery performance. Used Telerik Controls for rich user experience Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the mode. Participated in understanding of AngularJS technologies and development tasks. Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs with Angular JS. Implemented Bootstrap in developing UI. Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Angular.js, D3 JS, and node.js. Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI technologies by using Angular.js and jQuery Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.js. Extensive use of AngularJS for scripting, AJAX calls and JSON and XML for passing objects from Controller to View and vice versa. Designed large number of WPF forms using XAML language for UI. Created the Data access layer and Data access objects using ADO.NET Entity framework and LINQ to reduce impedance mismatch. Used bindings to control the construction of the Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) channel stack at runtime. Implemented Eager Loading and Explicit Loading, compiled queries, Immediate Execution to improve performance to LINQ to Entities in Time manner. Developed various stored procedures for the data retrieval from the database and generating different types of reports using SQL reporting services (SSRS). Created packages using Integration Services (SSIS) for data extraction from Flat Files, Excel Files OLEDB etc. to Access etc. Worked with Team Foundation Server 2013 for version control of the source code along with the maintenance of the builds and the relevant documents of the same. Environment: Visual Studio 2013, C# 4.0, Entity Framework 4.0, ADO.NET, LINQ, WCF, WPF, TFS, XML, AngularJS, SOAP, SQL Developer, AJAX, XSLT, NUNIT, SSRS, SQL Server Express 2012, Windows Server 2005/2008 R2. Confidential - Sacramento, CA Sr. .NET Developer Responsibilities: Developed a high quality software model using N-Tier Architecture with Software development life-cycle (SDLC) followed by Agile- SCRUM methodologies. Test driven environment (TDD) for new business functionalities according to DSD use cases. Involved in design and development of application on ASP.NET MVC 4.0 Framework. Support existing Web application implemented in ASP.NET Web forms. Developed WEB API to expose business functions to third party service such as child care services, HIMMIS divisions and worked on styling and client side scripting using - JQuery, boot strap. Developed rich UI using views, partial views with Kendo UI MVVM, Scaffolding Templates, Razor View Engine. Used Entity framework 5 - Reverse Engineering approach, code first and database first approach. Used LINQ, design patterns, coding standards and data driven User Interface design. Used Microsoft Visio to Design Sequential diagrams, flow diagrams and database schemas. Responsible for developing WCF Service Libraries to exchange data for Central Application and implement business rules for all server related operations. Implemented Query Expressions, Expression Trees to get data from SQL, XML using LINQ to SQL and LINQ to XML. Applied Themes and CSS styles for UI design of WebPages and Used Ajax and JavaScript to minimize number of Page Refresh. Developed system services SOA application platform for use by all web applications utilizing WCF services (web services) and the ASP.Net provider model. Used Entity Framework/ ADO.NETfor consistent access to data sources. Created SQL Server Tables and Complex Tables and Developed triggers, Stored Procedures, Views and User-Defined Functions those are required for the application. Involved in visual studio Unit Testing and successful integration of modules and multiple layers in system. Interacted with functional and testing team for requirement clarifications, bug tracking and test case reviews. Environment: C# .NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, TDD, MVC, Web API, .NET Framework 3.5/4, Visual Studio 2010, XML, XSL, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, SQL Server 2012, SSRS, HTML, CSS, Entity Framework, SOAP/WSDL/WCF, IIS, TFS. Confidential  SOFTWARE TRAINEE/.NET DEVELOPER Responsibilities: Created ASP.NET pages with web server controls for the presentation layer. Implemented validation using validation controls, JQuery and JavaScript client side validations. Developed web applications using ASP.NET and AJAX Extensions under MVC architecture. Created Web Forms for developing the applications using webserver controls and HTML controls. Using Entity Framework, connected to relational data by writing LINQ to SQL queries. Involved in all the phases of the Software Development Life Cycle including System Analysis, Design and Development and involved in the development of business logic in C#. NET. Designed and implemented a number of supply chain tools for sustaining programs Implemented Page level security and permissions based on the authentication details. Developed administrative functions such as assigning property viewing permissions and adding system users and created web custom controls and web user controls where necessary. Using Windows Forms for GUIs with some test work with Crystal Reports & html for reporting. Written Web Service for Messaging module passing user data from Manager to Sales Team and vice versa using C#.Net and for Performance Tuning, I worked on Query Optimization. Send ADO.NET datasets through XML Web service and presenting the data from the XML file by using XSLT and resolved issues in other applications that are used VB.NET. Designed reports and written some dynamic calculations for reports using SQL Server Reporting Services. Provided technical support and updates to customers and partners in a timely manner and documented technical and programming specifications. Data Formatting was done using HTML, CSS and client side scripting using JQuery. Created and consumed WCF Services using C#, ADO.NET and SQL Server Involved in writing SQL commands, SQL procedures to interact with the SQL Server database. Working with Team Foundation Server as the source for version control and project / issue management. Environment: ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, Visual Studio.NET 2008, XML, SQL Server 2005, Oracle 10i, .NET Framework 3.5, AJAX Control Toolkit, TFS, Infragistics, NHibernate, SQL Server 2005 HTML, XML, Web Services. 