SUMMARY Over 5+years of experience in Information Technology with expertise on Software Quality & Testing and documentation of various applications like Web Based and Client/Server applications. Hands - on experience working on Selenium WebDriver. Have good experience in Implementation of Test plans and expertise in Designing, creating and execution of Test Cases & Test Scripts. Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) Including Risk Analysis, Process Planning, Test Design, Performing Test, Defect Tracking tools like Bugzilla, Management and Test Reporting, Traceability matrix. Experience working in Agile/Scrum methodology as part of Quality assurance team. Proficient in analyzing Functional Requirement Specifications (FRS) and System Design Specifications (SDS). PerformedInstallation testing, Sanity testing, Functional testing, Retesting, Regression testing, System testing, GUI & Browser compatibilitytesting and Documentation testing, Ad-hoc testing, End-to-End Testing, UAT testing, Black box and white box testing. Expertise in creating and executing Selenium WebDriver test cases with JAVA programing language. Executing Automation testing in Selenium using Eclipse to define project structure, dependencies, build and test management. Involved in defining Automation Test Strategy focusing on Test Case and Test data preparation using Selenium Web Driver. Experience in writing test scripts for automating Web applications by using TestNG, JUnit framework with Selenium Web Driver. Good knowledge on ETL: Informatica tool and experience working on teh reporting tool such as BRIO. Experience in programming and scripting languages like Java, Visual Basic, C#.NET, Oracle. Proficient in developing & executing SQL Queries for Testing teh Database. Working knowledge in Quality Center, HP-ALM, JIRA for bug tracking and reporting and follow up with development team to verify bug fixes and update bug status. Implemented Page Object Model,Page Object Factory Framework, Data Driven, Keyword Driven, Hybrid automation frameworks using Selenium Web Driver,JAVA, TestNG. Experience Working in Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and Test Driven Development. Worked on testing software applications in various domains. Thorough understanding of teh life cycle of Software Engineering-Requirements, Analysis, Design, Development and Documentation. (SDLC, Test Life Cycle and Bug Life Cycle). Thorough hand on experience in Functional testing, Integration testing, System testing, Regression testing and Performance testing. Fluent in Black and White Box testing. TECHNICAL SKILLS Test Management Tools:  ApplicationLifecycleManagement(ALM), Rational Team Concert, Jira. Functional Testing Tools:  Selenium IDE,WebDriver,UFT. Performance Testing Tools:  Load Runner, Jmeter. Office Tools:  MS-Project, MS-Word, Excel, Powerpoint Languages:  JAVA,C#.NET,UNIX,SQL,PL/SQL,HTML,VB Script Databases:  Oracle 11g, SQL Server Database Tools:  SQL Developer, TOAD, Workbench, SQL Server Management Studio Microsoft Tools:  .Net Framework, Visual Studio IDE:  Eclipse PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential QA Analyst Responsibilities: Working in teh agile methodology following teh bi-weekly sprints. Involved in requirements gathering meetings to analyze and better write teh test cases. Participating in teh daily SCRUM, Test planning and Test Case/Test Script review meetings. Created test cases, user stories, delivered reports like testing status, defect-tracking status using TFS. Created test plans, test cases, test suites and test data based on BRDs and technical specifications. Manually executed test cases and documented teh proof of testing. ConductedSanity, Functional, System, Integrated and Regression testings to teh application. Prepared preconditioned data for negative testing and positive testing of teh application. Wrote manual test scenarios to test teh functionality of teh application, and business workflows. Developed and performed validation tests and security tests as per teh customer requirements. Created Test scripts, Logged defects, Test Execution and Documented teh Reports using TFS. Verified Data Integrity of teh application by writing SQL queries in SQL Server Management Studio. Coordinated development of test cases, test data and databases. Ensure availability of test environment. Obtain and maintain test data. Using SoapUI to test SOAP web services. Environment: .NET, Java Script, Web services, TFS, SQL Server, SQLServerManagementStudio, SOAP UI, Windows, UNIX. Confidential, AZ QA Analyst Responsibilities: Working in teh agile methodology following teh bi-weekly sprints. Participating in teh SCRUM, Demo and Test planning meetings. Analyzed BusinessRequirements Documentand wrote Test Plans and Test Cases in ALM. Reviewed and evaluated requirements and specifications for testability and completeness. Prepared effort estimation and send it to Project Management and Program Management for upcoming projects. Created Test Plan, Test Cases and Test Scripts. Creation of Automated Test suites for teh Smoke Tests and Regression Test efforts using Selenium WebDriver. Testing teh application on various mobile devices using Perfecto. Parameterized teh scripts with Action parameters, Data table parameters, Environment variables and random numbers. Worked with Descriptive Programming to handle teh generic properties of teh objects and used several runtime-functions to retrieve teh properties of teh object. Created user defined functions to reduce teh redundant code and enhanced teh scripts. Worked on Selenium IDE and RC open source tool for automating teh application. Develop a Test Framework in Selenium WebDriver& TestNG for Regression testing. Quick set-up, execution and reporting of findings for smoke test for each Build. Built a detailed, reusable, Script-Free Keyword + Data Driven Automation Framework. Created sets of Test Data, Executed and tested Framework. Involved in teh design and implementation of an automation framework for testing with Selenium WebDriver. Used Automation Object Model to create Executable files for test runs. Performed and scheduled automated tests using TestNG framework. Used Selenium GRID to execute test cases parallel on different target machines. Coordinate, and document User Acceptance Testing (UAT) activities and issues. Performed Web service testing using SOAP UI tool. Used teh WINSCP tool for verifying teh logs. Environment: Windows, Java, Eclipse, Selenium IDE, Webdriver, Perfecto, TestNG, Jira, RTC, GIT, SQL, PL/SQL, ALM, UFT, Java script, WINSCP, SQL Server 2016, VB script, SOAP UI. Confidential, MA QA Analyst Responsibilities: Developed test plans and test cases based on specified requirements and Use Cases. Coordinating test design and execution of teh responsible modules among test team. Communicating project status and critical issues to teh executive team (stakeholders and sponsors). Created and delivered reports like testing status, defect-tracking status, and weekly status reports using ALM. Consolidated a test suite of functional, operational, performance, stress, regression test cases. Prepared preconditioned data for negative testing and positive testing of teh application. Tested all teh functional scenarios of user registration module and user access control, raised bugs for all teh missing functionalities and halped teh developers in fixing them Wrote manual and automation scenarios to test teh functionality of teh application, and business workflows. Developed and performed validation tests to demonstrate compliance with customer requirements. Conducted interface and regression testing during teh various phases of teh development. Created automation test suite using UFT and ALM. Created Test scripts, Logged defects, Test Execution and Documented teh Reports using HP ALM. Inserted synchronization points using Wait Property statement to solve any timing and window location problems that arrive during test execution. Generated automated test suite using VB Script in UFT. Involved in coordinating teh White box and Black box testing for teh data warehouse by checking ETL procedures/mappings Performed Backend Testing using TOAD (SQL Queries). Data-driven methodology was adhered throughout teh automated testing process. Coordinated development of test cases, test data and databases. Ensure availability of test environment. Obtain and maintain test data. Environment: Oracle, TOAD, WinRunner, UFT 12.0, ALM, QTP,Windows, UNIX. Confidential, NY QA Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in reviewing and implementing Business Requirement Documents and teh Technical Specification. Developed Test plan for System, detail & overall Test Plan using teh Business Specifications. Developed test scripts for Functionality and data driven tests. Developed test cases for functional, Regression, stress, by analyzing teh specifications of Business document usingALM. Created test cases and scenarios for Unit, Regression, Integration as well as Back-end, GUI and System testing. Excellent experience in writing Use Cases, for designing Class Models for a good test plan. Evaluated teh Functionalityof teh business logic. Checked teh data flow through teh front and backend and used SQL queries to extract teh data from teh database. Wrote SQL Queries for validating teh data integrity. Conducted teh System integration testing of teh application manually for different Modules. Environment: HP ALM, Bugzilla, UNIX, Windows NT, .Net, Oracle. 