SUMMARY About 5 years of experience in teh Information Technology Industry prominent in Quality Assurance and software testing in diverse environments (manual and Automation). Proficient ability in handling Web - based, Client-Server application in diverse setups, and developing automation tests in technologies like; Selenium suite (Web Driver, GRID), Cucumber, Java, Web Services, TestNG, SIT and UAT, Diversified testing noledge in QA especially in Agile methodology, as well as using JIRA, QC/ALM. Excellent testing skills in Black Box Testing, Backend Testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), System Testing, Regression Testing, Integration Testing, Load Testing and Smoke Testing. Experience in designing test strategy, test plan, planning and implementation of teh test suite. Experienced in creating Data-driven, Keyword driven frameworks. Experience in Functional and Regression testing utilizing manual and automated testing skills. Solid noledge of SDLC, SQA Methodology, and tools. Develop all lines of QA documentation including Test Plans, Test Cases, and Traceability Matrices. Identified correct GUI elements using variousSeleniumLocators like ID, Name, Link Text, Partial Link Text, XPath and CSS to find teh Web Elements usingseleniumand creating automation scripts. Automated regression test cases using Jenkins build jobs,SeleniumIDE, WebDriver, TestNG, and Maven. Hands on experience in using build and project management tools like Maven and version control tool GIT. Work experience in integrating Automation scripts (Selenium Web Driver API) with Continuous Integration tool JENKINS for scheduling or nightly batch run of teh Script. Experienced in developing Test cases for system-level performance testing using JMeter. Extensive use of defect tracking tools, such as Jira, ALM, Quality Center. Experienced in working with different software methodologies like Agile, Scrum, test driven development and waterfall methodologies. Worked extensively in testing Web Services API (Soap and Restful web services) using SoapUI. Has experience developing user stories using CUCUMBER for behavioral driven development, integrated with TestNG, MAVEN. Highly motivated team player with analytical, organizational and technical skills, unique ability to adapt quickly to challenges and changing teh environment. Ability to work independently with minimal supervision and perform excellently as a good team member. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Junit, Cucumber, Jenkins, Apache POISoap UI, Rest-Assured, JMeter, Maven, Jenkins Test Mgmt Tools: HP-Quality Center, ALM, JIRA Servers: MS IIS, Apache, Web logic, WebSphere Languages: Java, C, SQL Database: MS SQL Server, MS Access, Oracle Platforms: Windows, UNIX/LINUX, Mac OS Application Tools: MS Office Suite (Word, Excel and Power Point, Outlook, Access) Version Control: Git PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Phoenix, AZ Automation Test Engineer Responsibilities: Creating and enhancing numerous test scripts to handle changes in teh objects, in teh Tested application and in teh test environment. Manually perform Functional testing including Security, System testing, Smoke testing and Back-end testing. Performed manual testing on new and existing functionality in each build and then regression testing on each build using Selenium WebDriver. Involved in analyzing system specifications, design, development and execution of test cases for Manual and Automated testing. Participated in SCRUM-related meeting (sprint planning, daily stand-up meetings, reviews, retrospectives and demos) Design, develop and implement Hybrid automation testing framework utilizing Java, and Selenium Web Driver) and test execution using TestNG Used Firebug to test web-based application with Selenium commands and locators inside teh application. Worked on Cross Browser testing through Selenium WebDriver by testing teh website on different browsers like Chrome, IE and Firefox. Involved in design and implementation of Selenium WebDriver automation framework for smoke and regression test suites (TestNG). Used Maven for building Hybrid Test Automation Framework project and maintained Maven build files for running automated tests. Used Apache POI services to read teh data from teh excel files Used Properties files to maintain all teh element locators used in teh framework Used Jenkins as version tool for automated execution of tests (nightly and need based) with Maven Used GIT as Source version control tool, Eclipse as IDE and Log4j is used for logging different types of messages. Used HP Quality Center to store all testing results, metrics, implemented test plan document, created test cases, Defect tracking and reporting Used Jira as bug tracking tool and to store all testing results, metrics, implemented test plan document, created test cases, Defect tracking and reporting. Used JDBC inside teh selenium script to write SQL queries and to generate reports. Participated QA weekly meetings and various other meetings and discussed enhancement and modification request issues and defects in teh application. Environment: Java, Selenium WebDriver, Maven, TestNG, Apache POI Jenkins, Xpath, Jira, HP QC/ALM, HTML, XML, SQL, Oracle, Windows. Confidential, Philadelphia, PA QA Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Interacted with teh Business Clients, Product Owners, Developers and QA Manager for clear exposure to trickle down teh technical/functional User Requirements & Change Requests to Test Plans and Test Scenarios. Identified test cases to automate. Automate those test cases using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and Java (Apache Solr) technologies (Eclipse IDE). Contributed in framework creation. Good experience in REST & SOAP based web services testing using RESTFUL web services testing tool. Perform Functional Testing, Regression Testing, System Integration testing, (UAT) User Acceptance Testing, and End to End Testing Responsible in executing Selenium test scripts on different browsers and checked for compatibility. Tested teh application in highly dynamic environment with sprint team using agile methodology. Automated teh Test cases using Selenium for Regression testing and TestNG for grouping teh tests Created and enhanced numerous test scripts to handle changes in teh objects, in teh tested application’s GUI and in teh testing, environment using Selenium WebDriver. Involved in creation of automation framework in Selenium WebDriver using behavior driven approach like Cucumber. Extensively used Page Objects design and page navigation framework for readable test script and easy maintenance from developer perspectives. Converted commercial QTP Scripts to open source Selenium WebDriver scripts to maximize teh profits of teh company without compromising Quality. Involved in using Jenkins as a Continuous Integration server to configure with Maven. Used Selenium WebDriver API to automate tests on cross browser and cross platform environment. Sound noledge on Object Oriented Programming concept and Java Language. Integrated Automation scripts (Selenium WebDriver API) on Continuous Integration tools Jenkins for nightly batch run of teh Script. Created Project plan on Jenkins, configured scheduled using Cron job. Involved in Functional Testing as Unit test, Method test, Test Suite, Integration Testing using different TestNG methods. Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven tool and created selenium automation scripts in java using TestNG prior to agile release. Performed Unit testing with TestNG test frame work and use Bromine for easy running teh test and store teh result for analysis teh test. Involved in SOAP & REST based web services testing using SOAPUIPRO web services testing tool. Identified teh Test Scenarios based on Functional Specifications and Business Requirements. Performed web services testing with SOAP UI and Performed Security testing for employee login validations. Conducted workflow, process diagram and gap analysis to derive requirements for existing systems enhancements. Used firebug to identify object’s ids, Name, XPaths, links in teh application. Used HP Quality Center for Test Management for functional Test Automation. Provide all data validation through SQL queries UNIX commands to perform Back-end testing Participated in Walkthrough and defect report meetings periodically. Responsible for keeping up with teh test schedule and interacting with software engineers to ensure clear communications on requirements and defect reports. Environment: Java, Selenium WebDriver, HP QC, REST services, GIT, Jenkins, TestNG, Maven, Eclipse IDE, JavaScript, Oracle and Windows. Confidential Software QA Engineer Responsibilities: Arranged daily meetings with onsite and offshore leads to getting and provide project status. Designed and maintained test schedules, test plan, test strategy, test assignment documents for various testing activities. Created test plans and wrote test cases for manual execution. Work closely with members of teh Scrum team to translate teh customers' business needs or Business Cases to a technical solution. Work closely with SCRUM team to create test scripts and test cases to ensure coverage of all areas of teh product/feature(s). Early identification and communication of risks related to assigned Projects. Involved in preparing Test Plan and Test Cases based on business requirements. Executed manual and automated test scripts/plans and provide defect and usability feedback to teh SCRUM team in a timely manner. Participated in SCRUM team development and maintaining testing environments. Meet with teh IT Architects/Scrum Masters to get an overview of teh project. Develop an automated approach for testing with Selenium Framework — identifying toolsets and establishing teh needed environment. Used Jira to report and track bugs and impediments. Performed data-driven, Functional, GUI, Black box and Regression testing using Selenium Web driver. Executed functional and regression test automation script for various modules of teh application by usingSeleniumWeb Driver in multiple browsers. Created Test Automation Script from scratch by usingSeleniumWeb Driver with TestNG Framework. Provided functional and regression test automation for software applications and environments usingSeleniumWebDriver. Used Firebug Tool to identify teh Object's id, Name, XPath, link, CSS Selector in teh application. Added annotations to teh test suites (selenium). Performed Database Testing validating data purse for Web transactions & business rules by writing SQL queries using JDBC. Involved in testing of teh database using SQL queries. Created various graphs & reports for test lab and defect modules in Quality Center and used Dashboard module to track teh activities. Attended daily scrum meetings early morning with teh developers and architects to report on wat was done teh day before, wat was to be done that day and report any impediments. Reported testing progress at teh end of every sprint in teh Sprint Review Meeting. Participated in and offered valuable contributions in all teh scrum meetings (me.e. from planning meetings to retrospective meetings). Environment: Java, JavaScript, Selenium IDE/ WebDriver, Cucumber, TestNG, Maven, Firebugs, Ruby, Fire Path, JUnit, Web Services, SOAP UI Pro, Quality Center. 