SUMMARY Over 8+ years of experience in Software Quality Assurance and Test Automation Process in IT industry and experience in testing Client/Server, Web - based Applications, Web Services (SOAP and REST) wif proficiency in both Manual and Automation Testing. Experience in all phases of Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC), Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), and methodologies like Waterfall and Agile. Experience in SQA (Software Quality Assurance) including Manual and Automation testing wif tools such as Selenium WebDriver/IDE/Grid, TestNG, Maven, Jenkins, JIRA and SoapUI. Experience in Data Driven, Page Object Model (POM) patterns using Selenium WebDriver and TestNG. Excellent knowledge on XPath, Firebug, Firefox and Chrome devtools. Hands-on experience wif Web Service testing using SoapUI, Apache Http Client, Rest API, and WSDL. REST API testing using SoapUI, POSTMAN, Apache HttpClient API, TestNG, JAXB & JSON parsers (JACKSON and GSON). Sound knowledge on TestNG framework for Test Automation, Maven for Project build integration, Jenkins for Continuous Integration. Good working knowledge of MySQL and Oracle databases. Strong experience wif Version Control Systems such as SVN and GIT. Experience in GUI and Functional Testing, Black box Testing, Positive/Negative testing, Ad-hoc testing, System testing, Integration, Performance, Stress, Load and Regression Testing of Web and Client/Server based applications using Manual and Automation techniques. Extensive experience in preparing Test Strategy, Test plan, Test scenarios, Test cases, and Test scripts based on user requirements and system requirement documents for functional, security, performance, configuration, regression, integration and usability testing. Expertise in documenting defects using Rally, JIRA, Bugzilla, Mantis. Experience wif data analysis, documenting business requirements and data specifications. A good team player, detail oriented, self-motivated individual wif strong analytical and leadership skills. Excellent interpersonal and communication skill. Good documentation and process management skills wif ability to TEMPeffectively understand the business requirement to develop a quality product. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages/ Scripts: Java, SQL, JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver/IDE/GRID, TestNG, Apache POI, Apache HTTPClient, SoapUI, POSTMAN Web Services: SOAP, REST, WSDL, JAXB, JSON(JACKSON, GSON) Bug Tracking Tools: Bugzilla, Rally, JIRA, Mantis Testing Methodologies: System Testing, Reliability Testing, Feature Testing, Acceptance Testing, Functionality Testing, Regression Testing, Agile Testing, Build Acceptance Testing, Go-Live Testing Databases: Oracle SQL, MySQL Misc. Tools: TOAD, Eclipse, Firebug, FirePath, Firefox, Chrome devtools Operating Systems: MAC, Linux, UNIX, Windows Build/CI Tools: Maven, Jenkins Version Control: SVN, GIT PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, SFO, CA QA Analyst Responsibilities: Assessed & analyzed user stories and participated in Sprint planning, Review Sessions & Scrum Meetings and developed Test scenarios, Test cases, Test data, Test procedures, Test reports. Performed Parallel and Cross Browser testing on different browsers like Internet Explorer, Chrome, Safari, and Firefox where multiple tests were run at the same time. Developed and Executed Test Scripts test scripts using Selenium Web Driver, Test NG and analyzed Test Results. Managed the framework dependency jars using Maven. Used Page object Framework for ease of maintenance of scripts. Used the test scripts as simple as, for dat we used Cucumber. Involved in Web services testing using SOAPUI Tool. Validated request and response XML. Added assertions to validate the XML in Web services SOA testing purpose used SOAP and RESTFUL service. Apache Http Client uses a Http Uri Request to send and receive data and handled various methods using Http GET, Http POST, HTTP DELETE, HTTP PUT method. Performed back end testing by writing and executing SQL queries to validate dat data is being populated in appropriate tables and manually verify the correctness of the data wif front-end values. Managed individual sprints, user stories, Test defect cycle, and tasks using Jira as tracking tool Performed Functional testing as per user stories and also performed Integration Testing & Regression, using Selenium Web Driver automation scripts. Users of dis application areInsurancepolicy owners,Insuranceagents and Customer Service Representatives. Used in Jmeter based on financial applications performance. Acts as liaison wif law enforcement officials and stateinsurancedepartments on matters related toclaimsfraud and fraud reporting requirements and used in ETL testing. Provided cloud brokering services across multiple Tier 1 Cloud Providers: Amazon Web Services (AWS) Migrated applications to the Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud. Used GitHub as a source repository system to share code wifin the office as well as wif the team in overseas Used Jenkins for continuous integration of test automation scripts Verified the integration of various components in the application and executed end-to-end testing. Participated in Release Review/Requirement Analysis and Design review meetings. Environment: Selenium Web Driver, XPath, Firebug, Fire Path, JXL, Log4j, JDBC, Maven, Jenkins, Web Services, SOAP, RESTFUL, Cucumber, SOAP UI, JMeFter, Http Client, TESTNG, AGILE, Java, HTML, Java Script, CSS, XML, JSON, HP Quality Center, JXL, Jira, TOAD, SQL Navigator, Oracle, SQL, Linux. Confidential, Portland QA Analyst Responsibilities: Actively participate in all Spec and Design review meetings. As part of Agile Team, I was responsible for Scrum Meetings and created test plans, test scenarios and wrote test cases for testing various services. Created test cases using Selenium Web Driver, TestNG and MAVEN. Created Selenium infrastructure for Regression Testing. Trained new team members on how to use Selenium and help them create tests using the framework. Involved in creation of automation framework in Selenium WebDriver using behavior driven approach likeCucumber. Performed functional testing to identify various critical points in the application and automated it by using Selenium Web Driver. Experienced in manual testing and automate SOAP and Restful Web Services using SOAP UI, Apache HttpClient, Jackson, JAXB parsers. Implemented SOAP UI for Web Service Testing Java development. Used different features of SOAP UI tool like data source, Property transfer steps, delay steps for performing the web services testing. Worked onCucumberTestingapplications and Responsible for preparing weekly status reports and validated the back-end data using SQL queries for data integrity. Used Jenkins continuous integration server to run automated test suites. Performed API Testing of server side business layer. Created selenium based scripts using Java and JUnit. Developed java based library to read test data from XML & properties files using JUnit and Selenium. Used other confluence tools like Wiki for document sharing. Developed the classes in Log4J to implement logging feature in all the application modules. Executed SQL queries to validate the Data in tables. Did functional testing, regression testing, smoke testing, and integration testing. Worked on cross platform (OS and Web browser) testing. Environment: Agile, Selenium Web Driver/IDE, Java, Claims, TestNG, JXL, HTML, XML, SOAP UI, RESTFUL, Cucumber, Firebug L, SOAP, AJAX, MySQL, JUnit, Log4j, SQL, UNIX, MAVEN, Jira,, Oracle, SQL, Windows. Confidential, Mountain View, CA Sr. Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Responsible for preparation of Test cycle/progress reports, analysis of defect metrics & implement improvement actions for next iterations. Participated in Agile software testing process wif regular QA meetings to discuss major features of the application, test cases to write and execute. Responsible for fixing and maintaining regression automation test scripts for end to end testing using Selenium Web Driver (using Java). Designed and Developed UAT Regression automation script and Automation of functional testing framework for all modules using Selenium and Web Driver. Converted QTP scripts to Selenium WebDriver scripts. Used Java language and JUnit framework for scripting. Created Data Driven Framework to test wif different sets of test data. Designed and executed the Automation Test Scripts usingSelenium Web Driver and JUnit. Created the tests dat has no user interaction as a set and executed them as Batch tests using ANT. Implemented Automated execution of tests (nightly and need based) using ANT and Jenkins. Worked on distributed test automation execution on different environment as part of Continuous Integration Process using Selenium Grid and Jenkins. Performed different testing task using various test scripts on Selenium Web Driver and Junit. Used Firebug to identify web elements using XPath and CSS selectors. Executed SOAP based web services API testing (Java client and SOAPUI). Worked on creating test case for object-driven framework for selenium web driver. Performed data driven testing by using JDBC as a data source in SOAP UI and configured SQL queries to fetch data from the Oracle database. Used XML files in sending/receiving XML requests using SOAPUI. Http Client uses a Http Uri Request to send and receive data, Important subclass of HttpUriRequest are Http Get and Http Post Involved manual testing of various test cases wif respective test scripts on Selenium and generate analysis report wif Quality Center. Involved in testing of web application by creating XML test suite. Data Validation and testing using SQL and PL/SQL wif Oracle and Toad also JDBC. Conducted backend testing using SQL queries to validate data for database and Used SQL queries for retrieving data from database for executing user specific test cases. Closely involved wif development team, maintenance team and business team regarding changing requirements, builds and releases. Environment: Selenium Web Driver 2.0, Eclipse, Java, TestNG, JXL, xPath, Firebug, Fire path, Agile, Maven, Jenkins, Rally, XML, SOAP, SOAP UI, Web Services (SOAP and RESTFUL), Oracle 10g, Quality Center, HTML, Java Script, CSS, UNIX, SQL, TOAD. Confidential, Irving, TX QA Engineer Responsibilities: Interacting wif client and project team to understand the testing requirements. Created some reusable and application specific functions using Selenium RC. Performed data driven tests in Selenium using java. Used Maven as build and configuration tool. Extensively used TESTNG as Testing Framework for java applications. Involved in Manual and Automation testing. Review test cases and scripts created by team members. Automation test wifQTPrecord and playback, data driven the scripts. Created automation code using both VB scripting and Descriptive Programming inQTPfor Data Driven and functionality testing, imported them in Database using Perl and executed them on client server application. Conducted Regression testing of the web-based application using SOAP UI. Identify test scenarios and define test cases and test data. Involved in Functional Requirement analysis, creating RTM. Created mappings for the requirements and the test lab from all iterations. Extensively used Mercury Quality Center for test management process. Used SVN repository as Version Control. Organized library was used to maintain reusable classes and methods. Executed SQL queries for backend data validation. Worked closely wif developers for issue resolution and bug status updates. Environment: Selenium Web Driver, QTP, Web Services, SAOP, RESTFUL, SOAP UI, TESTNG, Java, XML, Quality Center, SQL, PL/SQL, JUnit, GIT, SVN, Maven, Oracle, Windows. Confidential Incident & Change Manager Responsibilities: Incident Management: (Driving Severity 1 and Severity 2 resolution wifin SLA). During any incident occurrence, the incident is resolved based on the priorities wif a permanent fix or a temporary fix wif a workaround. Driving fixes to a number of issues related to different Severity(Severity 1,2 &3) Working on Incidents and Work requests Chasing for Customer/IBM Teams for Updates on Incidents and driving for fixes wifin Service Level Agreement Attending Severity 1 Conference Calls and participating actively in driving for resolution of tickets Prepare Daily/Weekly/Monthly Reports which includes Trending Analysis Worked/Working on a Project wif Customer which helped them to close all Backlogs. (Backlog Project) Change Management: Any changes in the clients IT infrastructure to be discussed in the CAB agenda. I approve the change to go forward and record them in the CMDB (Configuration Management Data Base). The critical and standard changes of all the configuration items are approved and implemented in the production environment. Raising Changes, Building & Verifying Risk Assessment, Scheduling Changes, Closing Changes and Work requests Chasing for Customer/IBM Teams for Updates/Approvals on Changes and driving for fixes wifin Service Level Agreement Preparing CAB Agenda and Attending CAB’s calls wif Customer and Technical Teams. Prepare Daily/Weekly/Monthly Reports which includes Trending Analysis Worked on a CPMA - MAXIMO migration project. My role was to migrate the CPMA tool to MAXIMO where I would gather all the information on Change and Incident and would submit to replicate the CPMA on MAXIMO. Confidential Change Lead Responsibilities: Raising Changes Scheduling Changes in MAXIMO/Amdocs, Building & Verifying Risk Assessment, Closing Changes and Work requests Chasing for Customer/IBM Teams for Updates/Approvals on Changes and driving for fixes wifin Service Level Agreement Preparing CAB Agenda and Attending CAB’s calls wif Customer and Technical Teams. Prepare Daily/Weekly/Monthly Reports which includes Trending Analysis Generating reports (Monthly Score Card)