SUMMARY About 6 plus years of experience in Quality Assurance and Testing, involved in developing Test Strategy, Test Plans, Test scenarios, Test Cases, Test Scripts, and Test Environments. Experience working as Test Lead which involves interacting wif various stake holders Application product owner(APO), project managers, business analysts, developers, technical support and halp them in base line teh requirement specifications in both Agile and waterfall efforts Excellent presentation and documentation skills Mentor new team members in test team on client handling skills Conducting Systems, Integration, Functional, User - Acceptance Testing and improvement of QA Process. Possess expert level of understanding of WSDL, Schema, DTD, XML documents for Web Services Testing. Key expertise includes testing and debugging GUI and Multi-Applications Performed Functional, Regression, User Acceptance and performance test using Manual test Methodology and Automated testing tools. Ability to document and track defects using TFS and JIRA. Experience in Web services testing using fiddler. Experience wif data analysis, analyzing, documenting business requirements and data specifications. Tested Mobile applications on android and ios Experience in Testing Database Applications (ORACLE, MS SQL Server) Highly creative and extremely hardworking wif strong analytical and intuitive ability to master new technologies, concepts, and applications. Excellent analytical and debugging skills, issue finding, solving and learning skills. A good team player, detail oriented, self-motivated individual wif strong analytical and leadership skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages:  JAVA, J2EE, and PL/SQL, .NET Framework Database:  Oracle 11g, Oracle SQL Developer 4.1.3, Oracle, SQL Server Operating Systems:  Windows7, Windows Vista, XP, Windows NT, Windows2000 Other Tools:  JIRA, HP ALM, Quality Center PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Chicago QA Test Lead Responsibilities: Working wif all stake holders to ensure that teh Test Strategy reviewed and agreed upon Prepare estimates and involve in resource planning meetings. Work wif Project Manager on ensuring tasks and deliverables are completed. Work wif Project Manager on issues that need to be escalated. Testing API and Web services using Soap UI Reports Testing status every day to Project Managers and Business Application Manger. Reviewed database business and functional requirements, reviewed mapping transformation. Tracked all teh bugs and fixed them using Jira and generated reports and test metrics. Developing and executing test plans and test cases to halp ensure data in teh tables and Reports are accurate as per source. Involved in various phases of testing (System, Release and Post Implement)Analyze teh Discrepancies, severity, tracking system and reporting. Tested United Airlines mobile application on Android and IOS devices. Installed teh mobile test client several mobile devices. Ensure that teh mobile devices has connectivity through Wifi, 3G or 4G . Tracked deeply for one medium severity and high priority flaw in teh software before its release date. Tested web services using Fiddler tool Tested teh website on different mobile devices (movweb). Tested semantics of teh website using chrome. Coordinate and perform User Acceptance Testing and provide test results to business users. Conduct daily defect status meeting. Managed Team size of 4 members. Working closely wif development and testing team to meet teh project deadlines. Preparing test data and load teh test data to different environments for mobile and website testing implementation of Selenium WebDriver Automation Framework for Smoke test and Regression test using TestNG & Maven. Environment: Agile(Scrum),JIRA, Eclipse(JAVA), Jenkins, SharePoint, Selenium WebDriver, Github, TFS, Browser Testing Tool and Windows 10 Confidential, Chicago QA Test Lead Responsibilities: Created and executed test plans, test strategies, test scenarios, test scripts, test cases for manual testing. Interacted wif Business Analysts, Developers and End-Users to design and audit detailed test plan document for application testing. Tested dialogs (authorable and unauthorable part) in author, publish and dispatcher Tested internationalization Tested if content is coming from dictionary Tested error messages based on teh content spec Prepared UAT test cases and testing estimates Assured software delivered meets all requirements and expectations of final UAT test plan. Designed and developed test plan and test cases. Documented all errors/defects identified and implemented their resolutions as defined by management. Performed smoke testing after every deployment to make sure teh application delivered is testable. Participated in conceptual design sessions that mainly included initial use case reviews user worker approvals for intake, payments and accounting tracks and also provided test metrics report to test manager as necessary. Performed cyclone testing. Validated artifacts for use cases, screen specifications, UCR (Technical Design Document) in Clear Case for each Increment and provided reports to teh testing manager as needed. Prepared teh test data for manual testing. Used JIRA for preparing test cases, test scripts. Executed test cases and test scripts in teh JIRA test cycles. Participated in teh defect triage meetings and discuss about teh defects wif teh team members. Performed browser compatibility testing using different browsers like IE, Firefox and Chrome. Tracked all teh bugs and fixed them using Jira and generated reports and test metrics. Proactively identify and report on defects, issues and dependencies for teh project Active participation in regular project status meetings related to testing. Executed testing processes and reported findings and tested database accurately whenever required. Conducted walkthroughs and presentation of teh Test requirement group and test cases to development and business team. Reported teh testing results to management and communicating plans, project status, project risks and project metrics to all levels of teh project team including our supporting teams as applicable. Discussed wif teh team members and identified teh improvements to teh testing process. Interacted wif end users and investigate issues related to teh QA. Worked directly wif teh application Business Analysts, business customers, and project team members to identify appropriate test case coverage and related test data requirements. Prepared comprehensive test plan and conducted integration testing, functional testing for teh modules in teh application. Tested Mobile application on different devices of android and ios Worked on test team status reports and proactively addressed issues related to environment/integration/builds Worked under Scrum Master in Agile methodology to ensure teh new features meet teh customer requirements and acceptable quality assurance standards. Environment: AEM 6.3, Jira, Java, XML, J2EE Architecture, Java (JDK 5), JSP, Servlets (JSDK 3.0), Oracle 11g, Windows7, Linux, Firefox, IE10, SAP BI Crystal Reports, HPALM Confidential, IL QA Tester Responsibilities: Analyzed teh Business Requirement documents, Functional Requirement documents to formulate teh system validation test plan. Good expertise in UAT Test Plan, Test Case design, creation, and execution Prepared test scenarios, test (IOS or android) cases and test scripts according to teh requirements. Tested mobile applications on different mobile devices. Interacted wif Business Analysts to prepare teh test plan document for application testing. Participated in weekly status meeting and updated teh status on test cases execution, defects and other issues. Developed test cases by analyzing functional requirements, test procedures. Designed and analyzed test case design document based on teh functional requirement specifications to implement through testing process. Interacted wif developers, users and various members of teh team to discuss and resolve defects and priorities. Worked directly wif teh application Business Analyst, business customers, and project team members to identify appropriate test case coverage and related test data requirements. Conducted peer reviews for test cases, and procedures. Assisted teh QA Manager in preparing teh testing phase based on teh project plan to ensure teh completion of teh testing activity is on time. Tested manually teh various navigation steps and basic functionality of teh application Used Jira to upload requirements, write test cases. Provided teh estimates to team lead regarding teh testing efforts. Developed test cases by analyzing functional requirements, test procedures. Performed back end testing by writing SQL using MySQL Wrote SQL queries and executed them using MySQL. Wrote test plan and test cases. Wrote and executed test scripts. Involved in retesting teh fixed defects and keep track of defects through defect life cycle Responsible for Analysis and Defect Tracking using JIRA tool Involved in daily meeting wif Team members to keep track of defects and provided update on Testing progress to teh Team Lead Participated in daily standup meetings as part of Agile methodology Updated teh weekly status on teh defects found in teh shared folder. Performed functional testing of teh application to make sure teh business process worked as intended. Analyzed and developed test plan, test cases, test scripts, expected test results and test procedure from functional requirement for different modules in teh application. Prepared and presented weekly and monthly QA defect and status reports of teh project. Provided teh estimates to team lead regarding teh testing efforts. Validate and approve entry/exit criteria forms for System, Integration and User Acceptance Testing Environment: Jira, MySQL, Agile - SDLC &STLC, QTP, PL/SQL Confidential, Tampa, FL QA Tester Responsibilities: Involved in gathering business requirement, studying teh application and collecting teh information from developers and writing teh test plans. Worked wif designers and developers to analyze and understand teh working of application Responsible for teh creation and execution of manual test scripts. Worked wif Business Analysts to define testing requirements to satisfy teh business objectives. Responsible for creating complete test cases, test plans, test data, and reporting status ensuring accurate coverage of requirements and business processes. Defined teh Scope of testing for User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Reviewed Requirements Matrix to ensure all requirements were included in teh scope of UAT testing and developed detailed test conditions. Supported documentation across extended testing team as directed by teh UAT Manager. Adhered to all established processes and procedures for UAT testing. Completed UAT test cases and scripts for frontend and backend applications. Experience in SDLC and Agile methodologies such as SCRUM. Analyzing requirements and creating and executing test cases Test Case Execution and Adhoc testing Performed Integration, End-to-End, system testing. Involved in Functional Testing & Regression Testing Verified teh data wif teh Oracle SQL Developer by running SQL queries in teh database. Involving in writing SQL queries to verify teh application data Performed data validation testing using SQL queries. . Used HPALM for storing, maintaining teh test repository, bug tracking and reporting Experience in retesting teh existing test cases wif teh different kinds of source system for different periods of data. Preparing documentation for some of teh recurring defects and business comments for those defects Environment: HPALM, Oracle SQL Developer, Windows NT/2000 Confidential QA Tester Responsibilities: Manually tested teh application using teh test cases. Tracked teh defects through teh Quality Center and created Test cases. Performed Integration testing between module releases. Responsible for emphasizing teh Agile Methodology. Worked extensively in agile environment and wrote and executed SCRUM-Based test Cases. Maintained a Product and Sprint Backlog, created Stories for month long Sprints, ran daily Scrum, held Monthly Scrum Reviews in accordance wif agile methodology. Participated in all phases of teh Software Testing Life Cycle. Developed Test related documents including Test Plans, Test Procedures, Test Cases and Test Scripts. Conducted Regression, Functional, and Performance and Multi-User tests manually. Investigated and documented software faults and interfaced wif developers to resolve technical issues. Involved in database testing and wrote simple SQL queries to retrieve data from database and compare teh data that is displayed on teh web application Used SQL Developer for executing various types of SQL queries. Performed test execution at teh system integration level, performed feasibility studies and evaluated system requirements. Provided teh QA Lead wif teh ongoing status and updates in teh daily stand up meeting. Environment: Quality Center, Oracle SQL Developer, Windows NT/2000 