SUMMARY 8 + years of hands - on experience as Software Engineer as Quality Engineer/ Quality Assurance. Complete understanding of Quality Assurance Life Cycle (QALC), QA Methodology and QA Strategy including Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Experience in Agile/Scrum & Waterfall Software development methodologies. Expertise in design and development of automation scripts using Selenium IDE/ RC/ Web Driver APIs to automate web application screen flows using cucumber. Expertise in automation frameworks like BDD, Data driven, TDM, Keyword driven, Page Object Model. Implemented keyword-driven frameworks using JAVA APIs like JUnit, TestNG, JXL and JDBC. Expertise in using all Webdriver APIs like select, navigation, Interrogation & manipulation. Expertise in identifying properties to find unique object on the web page using browser add-ons like firebug, IE Developer tool & Firebug Expertise in writing x-path & CSS to identify the objects on the web page. Experience in Manual QA Testing in Desktop applications. Experience wif testing web services using tools like SOAP UI and groovy code and TEST NG Integration Experience in automation code to perform REST API Testing using TestNG, JAXB and JAXP, Json Experience wif code compile/build frameworks like Maven, Ant and Continuous integration and continuous deployment tool like Jenkins noledge in test Mobile web based applications wif the help of User agent switcher & Android Simulator. Experience in developing Test plans, Test scripts, Test cases, Traceability Matrix. Proficient in Functional testing, Regression testing, API Testing, Integration testing and System testing. Experience in developing and executing SQL queries and Stored procedures as a part of the back end testing and comparing the results wif GUI results. Expertise in using the version control tools like SVN, GIT to access the source repositories. Experience in Unix/Linux file system commands to monitor the log files, processes running and ability to modify the shell scripts as necessary. Experience in bug reporting tools like JIRA, Rally &TFS. Possess strong analytical and communication skills and ability to work in a team as well as independently. Exceptional ability to quickly master new concepts and technologies. Experience creating automated tests, and regression test suites wif testing tools as Selenium web driver, Selenium Grid, Jenkins, JUnit, ANT, App Test Manager, etc. Working noledge of running manual and C# automation test suites using Quality Center test lab used. Quality Center and Jira bug tracking BDD tools to report and track defects, to manage and run test cases. Managed and worked on all levels of testing like Functional, System, End-to-End user acceptance testing, Smoke testing and Sanity Testing. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing Tools: Selenium Web Driver, Selenium IDE, Selenium Grid, QTP 10.0, SOAP UI Pro 4.x, JUnit4, TestNG, Auto IT3, Marathon and Eclipse IDE. Languages: Java, Groovy, C, C#, C++, HTML, Java Script, XML, SQL Internet Technologies: J2EE, Web Services, SOAP, RESTFUL, XPATH, Log4j, JNDI, Spring, Hibernate, Log4j, Ant, Maven, Jersey Database and Tools: Oracle, MySQL, DB2, TOAD, SQL Navigator Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, DOS, MAC Methodologies: SDLC, Waterfall, Agile Servers: WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, IBM HTTP Server, Apache HTTP Server Browsers: Firefox, IE, Chrome, Safari Misc. Tools: WinSCP, PUTTY, HTTP Analyser, Firebug, Paros Proxy, VISIO, ECLIPSE, SVN PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Louisville, KY Software Development Responsibilities: Understanding the Requirements and Functional Specifications of the Application. Analysed Business Requirements use cases Agile/scrum PROCESS and worked on automation and manual testing of the application. Involved in creating Java based scripts for developed and maintained using Selenium WebDriver wif TestNG as cucumber page object model automation frame work. Used Selenium Web Driver, Java, and XPath & Firebug, Maven, log4j and JDBC Used selenium Grid to run web driver tests remotely in different combination of environments. Responsible for implementation of build using WebDriver2, TestNG& Maven technologies under Java platform utilizing industry leading harness design patterns and approaches. Authoring test cases & executing them on new build. Intetacting wif developers and Business Analyst regarding test requirements and defects. Used to perform regression & Ad-hoc testing per every release. Used GIT version control tool for code submission. Used JIRA test management tool to manage Agile process Used Build automation tool Maven. Used intelliJ IDE for developing code. Strong troubleshooting skills wif excellent analytical background. Debugging complex system issues by analysing large scale data, system logs. Good understanding of front end system functionality helped in trouble shooting the production tickets. Confidential, San Francisco, CA Quality Assurance Engineer Responsibilities: Analyzed the user requirements, functional specifications and Use Case documents and created the Test Plans, Test cases for Functional testing. Conducted Smoke testing, C# Regression testing, Integration testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), Cross browser testing and Data validation. Executed Manual, Black box and white box testing to verify the functionality to meet the business requirements Developed and executed White box test cases of the Java API using TestNG framework and Eclipse. Working wif Offshore team, sending daily assignments, conducting meetings, reviewing tasks and verifying the QA status. Analyzed Business Requirement, manual test cases development and test execution. Developed Automation scripts, review and execute regressions using Selenium Web driver. Built test automation solutions Cucumber in agile environment. Involved creation of comprehensive test automation framework using Page Object Model to reduce repetitive testing using Selenium Webdriver, Eclipse IDE, Java, TestNG and other APIs. Developed scripts to navigate to various iframes and to handle multiple windows and performed operations on the web elements. Dealt wif Accessing Links and Tables using Selenium WebDriver. Incorporated the test data in Test jscripts from Excel using Apache POI API. Developing TEST Frame works using TestNG/ Junit, ANT/MAVEN build tools. Performed manual and automation testing wif REST web services using Java, Jenkins and Selenium. Monitored the automation results Provided validation of data through SQL queries. Analyzed the script execution report C# using java framework like TestNG Involved in testing Web services and XML, TDM wif tool called SOAP UI and using dis tool to locate WSDL file on internet, create Test cases and run them. Performed Mobile testing (IOS and Android devices) using simulator and physical devices. Tealium testing using splunk. Upload builds into device cart and installing the app in devices based on build notifications. Used APPIUM as a server for mobile app testing on IOS and Android systems Mentoring the team for implementation of test automation framework for mobile testing. Writing test objectives, writing manual test cases and developing scripts using selenium wif TestNG framework. Experienced in developing Test Plans, Test Strategy, Test Cases, Test Data requirements and Traceability Matrix from business, functional requirements, UX and technical designs. Working noledge of running manual and automation test suites using Quality Center test lab. Used Quality Center and Jira bug tracking tools to report and track defects, to manage and run test cases. Confidential, Utah, Salt Lake City QA Engineer and API Tester Responsibilities: Understanding the Requirements and Functional Specifications of the Application. Analysed Business Requirements, use cases Agile/scrum PROCESS and worked on automation. Involved in creating Java based scripts for Selenium WebDriver wif TestNG as automation frame work Used Selenium Web Driver, Grid, Java, and XPath & Firebug, Maven, log4j, JDBC and XLS API Used selenium Grid to run web driver tests remotely in different combination of environments. Responsible for implementation of build using WebDriver2, TestNG& Maven technologies under Java platform utilizing industry leading harness design patterns and approaches Designed & developed & maintained Page Object Model Framework by using Webdriver, Java. Used navigation, select, interrogation & manipulation webdriver apis in the framework. Automating test cases using the framework & reviewing team code. Authoring test cases & executing them on new build. Used to perform regression & Ad-hoc testing per every release. Used SVN version control tool for code submission. Used Rally test management tool to manage Agile process Involved in creating suites & scheduling them for execution. Involved in execution report analysis after test execution. Fixing the scripts as per the application changes. Created SQL queries and compared wif the GUI results. Used Build automation tool Maven. Used intelliJ IDE for developing code. Performed integration testing to Validate the webUi's by using cssSelectors. Written automation test cases for various modules using developed framework for the application Validated Ajax Controls, Pop-ups and Various form controls using Selenium Driver Used Firebug Tool to identify the Object's id, name, xPath, and link in the application. Used TestNG Test Suite to run group of Test classes and Test Cases. Used SOAP UI for Testing SOAP and Restful Web Services of the application Developed test cases and suites of the Web Services using Data Driven Framework Performed System and Regression of the application to meet the Business requirement documents. Customized the Test Case and Test Plans in Quality Center according to the requirements of the project. Confidential, Fort Worth, TX Quality Engineer Responsibilities: Designed structured User Interface automated Test cases using Selenium Web driver in Java to perform regression testing of member portal Wrote data driven cross browser automation test cases using Excel data wif Apache POI and used jdbc to query and validate backend. Executed automated test suites on multiple browsers and platforms using Selenium Grid Developed scripts in Eclipse IDE wif Maven as build tool, used Git for version control, Jenkins to schedule the scripts execution. Reported results in HTML and Excel wif graphical charts. Designed scripts using Xpath and CSS selector identification techniques using tools Firebug, Fire path, Chrome developer tools. Used Soap UI to test Restful web services for authentication, plans, benefits and claims developed in Message Broker and Data power Created test scripts using Groovy script to automate web services in SOAP UI. Performed Functional, UI and regression testing of member portal and open enrolment site Reported and tracked defects using Jira. Followed Agile / Scrum Development Process wif two-week sprints, sprint boards, daily scrum meetings, used Jira to create sprint boards, story tasking and log ours, tracked work wif burn down charts. Used SQL Navigator to perform backend testing using SQL, and also to create and update test data in QA test environment. Environment: Java, WebSphere Message Broker, Data Power, Oracle 10g, Selenium 2.0, Appium, Quality Centre, SOAP UI, REST API, JSON, Maven, TestNG, Jenkins, Git Confidential, Los Angeles, CA QA Engineer Responsibilities: Worked in an Agile /scrum software development methodology environment. Analyzed functional specifications and developed test plan and test cases for the application. Developed interface test cases after analyzing the integration requirements specifications Document. Performed proof of concept to choose an automation tool either QTP or Selenium. Design and developed automation scripts using Selenium for Functional and data driven test cases. Extensively used JUnit, JXL and TDM APIs to design and develop the data-driven test frameworks and test cases. Automated the basic functionality regression scripts using Selenium WebDriver to perform the regression testing for each release cycle. Maintain the automation scripts as per changing functionality and manage them in Subversion version control tool. Performed testing for DHL shipment tracking web service using soapUI and compared the results wif the application Shipping Module. Reported bugs in Quality Center and coordinated wif development team for closure. Performed Integration testing for the application as per Integration test plan. Performed testing of the background UNIX kron job interface that imports the Title data, and involves executing a JAVA class file to kick start the interface. Conducted backend Oracle database testing for the Title data by comparing the data from source system database to destination system database. Developed several SQL queries to compare the UI search results wif backend data. Environment: Selenium Web Driver 2, TestNG, SOAP UI, Web Services, SOAP UI, SOAP, Restful, XPath, HTML, Java Script, CSS, Maven, Jenkins, Log4j, HTML, XML, JavaScript, Web Services, Mobile Testing, QTP, HP Quality Center XML, SOAP, Soap UI, Java, SQL Server 2008, Shell Scripts, HTML Confidential, Riverwood, Illinois QA Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in the Requirement gathering stage from the Business team. Prepared Test Strategy and Test Plan Used Test Director for Test Planning, Test Execution, and Generating Reports. Identified the test scenarios and designed System Integration Test Cases. Involved in functionality and Sanity checking. Back-End Database verification manually to verify Databases Oracle and DB2 Verified application and error logs by connecting to UNIX box Extensive use of SQL to perform data integrity testing. Provided Support during UAT and Production Environment: J2EE, Swings, WebSphere, Oracle9i, Mainframes, DB2, Test Director. Confidential Software QA Engineer Responsibilities: Analyzed system specifications. Developed test plans, test cases and Test Scripts for Client/Server and Web. Integrated and modeled development environments. Involved in Unit Testing of Java Applications. Performed Regression, Functional, System, Integration testing and Performance testing. Tested various internal as well as external web services. Preparing Test Coverage matrix and mapping the requirements document id to the respective test case name. Analyzing screen flows and setting up of data using SQL scripts. Responsible for planning and conducting user acceptance testing wif the end users. Good understanding of front end system functionality helped in trouble shooting the production tickets. Programmed, Tested and Integrated the Management Module. Interacting wif Developers and Business Analyst regarding Test requirements and Defects. Prepared detailedTest Metricson a weekly basis for the projects to no the status of the Testing. Performed Input Validations, User Interface Validations, Browser Compatibility testing and Navigation testing. Environment: HTML, Java 1.1, and SQL Server, SQL, J-Unit test, Win NT, MS Office, Java, J2EE, JMS, CVS, Hibernate. JSP, EJB, JSTL, Jboss, Eclipse, Struts, Web services, Servlets, XML, Selenium IDE. 