SUMMARY Having around 8 years of experience in IT wif emphasis on Software Testing / Quality Assurance and Experience in testing web applications, as well as Standalone applications using manual testing and Automation testing using Java and Selenium Web Driver Worked on projects involving various industry domains like Ecommerce, Banking, Health Care, HR. Knowledge of all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software testing life cycle (STLC) using Agile & Waterfall methodologies and Rally and JIRA tools Excellent Coding skills using Java, C, C++, SQL and Scripting languages Java Script Understanding of the J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JDBC and Java Beans) and .net Technologies Familiar wif Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, xPath, XML, Web Services (SOAP and Restful), Log4j, Maven, Fire Path, Firebug, HTTP Fox, TestNG and Junit Technologies. Extensively worked wif Selenium WebDriver/ IDE/ RC/Grid for testing web applications. Developed the Selenium Test cases wif Data Driven, Selenium Page Objects Model Frameworks using: Selenium Web Driver, TestNG, Log4j, JXL, JDBC and Maven Experience wif integrating wif Jenkin & automating Selenium Tests wif Continuous Integration Experience in testing and performing various validations Web Services (SOAP and RESTFUL), creating Test Suites & Data Driven Tests using SOAP UI Tool Experienced in manual testing and automate SOAP and Restful Web Services using SOAP UI, Apache HTTP Client, JAXB parsers. Experience in testing native apps on phone, Android and iPad devices manually. Performed White Box testing using Junit framework Well Versed wif in Black Box, Functional, White Box, System, Regression, Integration, GUI testing using both Manual and Automation Techniques Hands on experience in Designing Test Cases covering all test conditions and eliminating redundancy and duplications and maintaining the test case in Quality Center and Rally Tool Experience in using various Databases & tools: Oracle, MySQL, DB2, TOAD, SQL Developer. Solid Back - end testing experience in writing and executing SQL Queries Experienced in using defect-tracking systems like JIRA, Bugzilla, Rally, and Quality Center. Extensive experience in different IDEs like Eclipse, and Edit plus. Exposure to build tools which include Maven, Jenkin Experienced in using repositories SVN/ GIT Working knowledge of Operating Systems: Windows, Mac, Linux and UNIX environments Ability to handle multiple tasks and work independently as well as in a team. Excellent written and verbal communication and interpersonal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Java, C, C++, SQL, Java Script Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver/IDE/RC/Grid, JUnit, TestNG, SOAP UI, Fire bug, Fire Path Web Services: SOAPUI, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP, RESTFUL Services Bug Tracking Tools: Rally, Quality Center, JIRA, Bugzilla Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, xPath, XML, Web Services (SOAP and Restful), J2EE, .net, Log4j, JXL IDE’s and Other Tools: Eclipse, Edit plus, Maven, Jenkin, Ant Databases and Tools: Oracle, MySQL, DB2, TOAD, SQL Developer, SQL, PL/SQL Web and App Servers: Apache Tomcat, Web Logic, Web Sphere, Microsoft IIS Version Control Tools: SVN, GIT, CVS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, CA Sr. Software Quality Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in developing Page Object Model Framework wif Selenium Web driver using Java programming. Configured Selenium Web Driver, TestNG, and created selenium automation scripts in java coding using TestNG prior to agile testing. Working in Agile environment. Used TestNG framework to build framework and analyze the automation run results. Used GitHub as source code repository. Used Maven as automation scripts integration tools and Jenkins as CI tool. Tested SOAP and Restful Web Services using SoapUI manually. Performed REST API Testing using HTTP client for creating automation scripts. Helped in creating high level documents like test plan, automation script design document. Involved in generation and management of test data required for testing. Tracked, identified and logged bugs using JIRA, and worked closely wif Developers to troubleshoot and fix issues. Created documentation for standardization of automation script execution, automation folder structure, test results, source control, and common functions for web-based applications. Used TestNg, Surefire reports to generate reports. Environment: Agile, JIRA, Selenium WebDriver, Java, Fire Bug, Apache POI, Log4j, MAVEN, Eclipse, TestNG, Jenkins, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XPATH, Firebug, Web Services, SoapUI, SOAP and REST APIs, Oracle SQL, Linux, Web Sphere Application Server. Confidential, CA Sr. Software Quality Engineer Responsibilities: Worked wif Business Analysts and Developers for requirements review and developing Test Scenarios. Responsible for all types of tests like Business Functionality, Documentation testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), browser compatibility testing, Integration testing. Involved in creating Java based scripts for Selenium WebDriver wif TestNG as automation framework. Automated Web Application testing using Selenium WebDriver and REST API wif Apache HTTP Client, TestNG, Apache POI frameworks. Used Selenium WebDriver, Maven, Java, XPath & Firebug, Log4j, JDBC and Apache POI APIs. Worked on Selenium GUI Object / element verification is done through XPath, CSS locators. Extensively used Page Objects design framework for readable test script and easy maintenance from developer perspectives. Used Github and Maven as automation scripts integration tools and Jenkins as CI tool. Performed parameterization of the Automated Test scripts in Selenium WebDriver to check how the application performs against multiple sets of data. Performed Compatibility testing of applications for dynamic and static content of browsers using HTML Ids and XPath in Selenium. Tested REST API using Apache HTTP Client, Apache POI, TestNG, GSON, JAXB Parsers. Validated XML and JSON responses using JAXB and GSON parsers. Involved in creating automation test suites for regression testing in SoapUI. The messaging formats included SOAP over HTTP and REST based clients wif XML payload. Tested SOAP and Restful Web Services using SoapUI manually. Performed Web Services Testing and XML validation by creating test case suite using SoapUI. Developed and executed SQL queries to verify the proper insertion, deletion and updates into the database. Performed Regression testing on new builds, every modification in the application using Selenium WebDriver. Performed defect reporting and bug tracking using JIRA and also followed up wif development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status. Environment: Agile, JIRA, Selenium WebDriver, Java, Fire Bug, Apache POI, Log4j, MAVEN, Eclipse, TestNG, Jenkins, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XPATH, Firebug, Web Services, SoapUI, SOAP and REST APIs, Oracle SQL, Linux. Confidential Sr. Software Quality Engineer Responsibilities: Worked wif Business Analysts and Developers for requirements review and developing Test Scenarios. Responsible for all types of tests like Business Functionality, Documentation testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), browser compatibility testing, Integration testing. Involved in creating Java based scripts for Selenium WebDriver wif TestNG as automation framework. Automated Web Application testing using Selenium WebDriver and REST API wif Apache HTTP Client, TestNG, Apache POI frameworks. Used Selenium WebDriver, Maven, Java, XPath & Firebug, Log4j, JDBC and Apache POI APIs. Worked on Selenium GUI Object / element verification is done through XPath, CSS locators. Extensively used Page Objects design framework for readable test script and easy maintenance from developer perspectives. Used Github and Maven as automation scripts integration tools and Jenkins as CI tool. Performed parameterization of the Automated Test scripts in Selenium WebDriver to check how the application performs against multiple sets of data. Performed Compatibility testing of applications for dynamic and static content of browsers using HTML Ids and XPath in Selenium. Tested REST API using Apache HTTP Client, Apache POI, TestNG, GSON, JAXB Parsers. Validated XML and JSON responses using JAXB and GSON parsers. Involved in creating automation test suites for regression testing in SoapUI. The messaging formats included SOAP over HTTP and REST based clients wif XML payload. Tested SOAP and Restful Web Services using SoapUI manually. Performed Web Services Testing and XML validation by creating test case suite using SoapUI. Developed and executed SQL queries to verify the proper insertion, deletion and updates into the database. Performed Regression testing on new builds, every modification in the application using Selenium WebDriver. Performed defect reporting and bug tracking using JIRA and also followed up wif development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status. Environment: Agile, JIRA, Selenium WebDriver, Java, Fire Bug, Apache POI, Log4j, MAVEN, Eclipse, TestNG, Jenkins, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XPATH, Firebug, Web Services, SoapUI, SOAP and REST APIs, Oracle SQL, Linux. Confidential Software Quality Engineer Responsibilities: Performed positive/negative testing for system validation using Selenium Automation Tools including Web driver. Performed API testing wif TestNG framework. Performed testing of software web applications including Functional, Integration and Regression testing. Performed Functional, Usability Navigationaland System testing by creating Automated Scripts usingSelenium WebDriver. Created Automation Test framework using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, XPath, Log4j, Apache POI/ JXL, Data Driven and Page Object Model principals Validated Ajax Controls, Pop-ups and Various form controls using Selenium Driver Used Firebug Tool to identify the Object's id, name, XPath, and link in the application. Used TestNG Test Suite to run group of Test classes and Test Cases. Integrated the test suites wif Jenkins continuous integration tool and helped build engineer to resolve the issues during integration wif the build process Performed RESTFUL functional web services testing. Developed test cases and suites of the Web Services using Data Driven Framework Performed System testing of the application to meet the Business requirement documents. Performedregression testsafter application builds and analyzed the test results. Used SQL Queries in performing data validation to ensure data accuracy and data integrity by testing back-end components. Customized the Test Case and Test Plans in Quality Center as per business requirements of the project. Logged Defects/Bugs in JIRA while performing the testing of the application Planned and Executed Test Cases, Automated test scripts, Test Metrics and reporting bugs. Used GitHub version control system to monitor the repository and perform merges Co-ordinated closely wif Development and Operations, Build and Off-shore teams for Resolving issues resolution and support Go-Live Actively for various releases. Environment: Agile, Java, Selenium Web Driver, XPath, Firebug, Fire Path, Log4j, JDBC, Maven, Web Services, SOAP UI, REST, TestNG, GitHub, HTML, Java Script, CSS, XML, JSON, AJAX, Jenkins, HP Quality Center, SQL Developer, Oracle Confidential Quality Analyst Responsibilities: Performed manual testing as per test scenarios in Quality Center. Interacted wif business analyst, software developers for defect reviews and participated inQA meetings. Created defects and followed-up wif Dev team using Quality Center. Performed browser compatibility testing. Good understanding of MVC architecture for web applications design and hands-on experience in implementing Front-end MVC pattern. Performed Integration and Regression testing using different browser and recorded test results in Quality Center. Prepared test data by executing SQL queries. Executed SQL queries to validate the data in database wif UIand checked database to see if UI updates has been recorded properly. Performed Smoke Testing to ascertain that the critical functionalities of the application are working fine or not for each build done by Dev Team. Environment: HP Quality Center, Windows, Toad, JBoss Application Server, Java/J2EE, Oracle. 