SUMMARY: 10+ Years of Experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Maintenance of N - Tier Enterprise Web and Windows Forms Applications. Strong in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirements, Design, Coding, Testing, Implementation. Experience in Agile environment using scrum methodology. Experienced in developing windows and web applications using .NetFramework 2.0/3.0/4.5/5 , C# 2.0/3.0/4/0, ASP.Net Web Forms, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, HTML, CSS, JSON, Telerik Controls, AJAX, IIS and SQL Server, Oracle, MySql and DB2 Databases. Extensive experience in interaction with customers, client and business/functional analyst for gathering the business requirements and functional specifications and converting them to technical requirements, applying OOAD concepts, Design Patterns and Test Driven Development (TDD). Excellent experience in Creating, Consuming and Publishing WCF and Rest full Web API Services. Experience in design and development of 3 Tier, N-tier distributed architecture. Experience in using MVC, MVVM, Singleton, Dependency Injection design pattern Experience in unit testing using Jasmine, NUnit. Experience in developing the web application using Integrated Query (LINQ) and Entity framework. Experience in Database Analysis/Design/Normalization using SQL Server Expert on developing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Views in SQL server. Expert in writing T-SQL statements for creating Tables, Indexes, Views and Constraints. Experience in developing Custom Reports and different types of Tabular, Matrix, Ad-hoc and distributed reports in multiple formats using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Crystal Reports. Well versed in creating dynamic SSIS packages, using containers & variables, configuring the packages, and scheduling the packages. Good knowledge in WPF,.Net Core, SharePoint, Angular JS 2.0/4.0,NoSql with MongoDB, Nodejs and npm packages and async/await, Multithreading. Experience in the source control software packages like Microsoft Visual Source Safe (VSS), Team foundation Server (TFS) and Tortoise SVN. Experience performing Unit and Integration Testing in the Development, System Integration Testing (SIT), User Acceptance Testing (UAT) including Bug Reporting and Fixing. Ability to work on strenuous team/single projects and meet deadlines. Excellent communication skills, strong organization and interpersonal skills and a very good team player, capable of working independently with minimal supervision and perform as part of a team. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, NY Sr IT Consultant Responsibilities: Experience in Analysis, Development, Integration, Testing and Deployment. Developed the front end using Telerik Controls, HTML, CSS3, and JQuery. Developed components using MVC, C#, LINQ and Entity Frame work. Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases using AJAX. Responsible for checking the cross browser compatibility. Used LINQ to SQL extensively for data transfer across the across the components. Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the database server to fetch data on the fly. Used Telerik UI controls for rich user interface. Used angular JS for synchronizing C# applications and client side scripting. Consumed the Web API services using Ajax calls to enable effective communication. Implemented Data access layer using Entity Framework to retrieve or manipulate database. Extensively worked on User Interface (views) using CSS, HTML5, Bootstrap, AJAX and AngularJS. Worked on Agile Methodology for developing the Application in time. Worked on Master Pages, partial pages, and HTML helpers using Razor View Engine. Implemented unit testing using Nunit for C# components and Jasmine for Angular Controllers Implemented Dependency Injection design using Nject containers. Environment: .NET Framework 4.5, C# 4.0, MVC 5, AngularJS, Entity Framework, HTML5, VS 2015, Sql Server 2014, IIS, TFS, Agile, Web API, LINQ, NUnit Confidential, Omaha NE Senior IT Consultant Responsibilities: Experience in Development, Integration and Deployment. Developed cloud Azure web job to load the data from EDW into the benchmarking db Used LINQ to SQL extensively for data transfer across the across the components. Worked on Master Pages, partial pages, and HTML helpers using Razor View Engine. Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the database server to fetch data on the fly. Used angular JS for synchronizing C# applications and client side scripting. Developed the classes using C#, which in corporate N-tier architecture and database connectivity. Implemented Data access layer using Entity Framework to retrieve or manipulate database. Extensively worked on User Interface (views) using CSS, HTML5, AJAX and AngularJS Consumed the Web API services using Ajax calls to enable effective communication. Worked on Agile Methodology for developing the Application in time. Design Tables, Triggers, Views, stored procedures using the Sql server database. Implemented unit testing using Unit Testing. Environment: .NET Framework 4.5, C# 4.0, MVC 5, AngularJS, Entity Framework, Bootstrap, HTML5, VS 2015, Sql Server 2014, IIS, TFS, Agile, Azure Web Job, Azure Service Bus, Web API, Odata, LINQ, Jasmine, NUnit Confidential, Arlington VA IT Consultant Responsibilities: Analyzing, reviewing and updating design document and use cases. Enhanced the existing application using technologies MVC, C#, LINQ and Entity Framework. Designed the Razor views, using technologies like AJAX, Templates, HTML and CSS Used AJAX, JSON controls to minimize server round trip and enhance customer experience Implemented unit testing using Nunit for C# components and Jasmine for Angular Controllers, Services Developed N-Tier Architecture which involves UI, Data Access, Business and Database Tiers. Designed and Developed User Interface views using MVC, C#, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and layout pages. Implemented Dependency Injection design using Unity containers. Developed Web API, Caching features, Configuring optimizations and securing the web application. Worked on Master Pages, partial pages, and HTML helpers using Razor View Engine. Developed AngularJS controllers to control the flow of data in the application. Developed filters to modify the data and also to clubbed in expression or directives Developed Custom directives in AngularJS to extend the functionality of HTML. Extensively worked on User Interface (views) using CSS, HTML5, AJAX, AngularJS and Bootstrap. Environment: .NET Framework 4.5, C# 4.0, MVC 5, Sql Server 2014, SSIS, WCF, Rest Web API, TFS, JIRA, Confluence, VS 2013, Entity Framework, Html5, AngularJS, Sql Server 2014, Telerik Web Controls Confidential  Sr .NET Developer Responsibilities: Experience in Development, Integration and Deployment. Analyzing, reviewing and updating design document and use cases Code Reviews to ensure standards and Create various reports using Crystal Reports Developed Tables, Views and Stored Procedures and complex SQL queries using SQL Server. Experience in deploying and consuming the WCF service using C#. Created SSIS packages export the data to third party vendors. Used LINQ to SQL extensively for data retrieving, querying, inserting and manipulation. Responsible for the Deployment and Delivery of the product in the client environment Developed the classes using C#, which in corporate N-tier architecture and database connectivity. Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, Win forms, ASP.Net, WCF, C#4.0, VS 2010, TFS, Sql Server 2008, XML, Crystal Reports 2008, Tibco RV, JIRA and Confluence, HP Quality Control. Confidential  Sr.NET Developer  Responsibilities: Responsible for analysis, design, implementation, management and maintenance of full software development life-cycle (SDLC) project. Create various reports using Crystal Reports. Review and modify programs to ensure technical accuracy, security and reliability of applications. Perform code review, bug fix and code migration. Design Tables, Triggers, Views, stored procedures using the Sql server database. Experience in Unit testing, Build and integration testing for the interfaces. Creating the Technical Design Documents. Analyze functional and business needs to implement the same into a functional application. Environment: .NET Framework 3.5, vb.Net, ASP.Net 3.5, SQL Server 2008, SSIS, Crystal Reports 2008VS 2008, JavaScript, Tibco RV and Jira and Confluence. Confidential  .Net Developer Responsibilities: Experience in Development, Integration and Deployment of application Analyzing, reviewing and updating design document and use cases Developed complex stored procedures and complex SQL queries using oracle 10g. Design and developed reports using crystal reports. Developed and used various Custom controls using C#. Created WCF Services and different bindings to make it available to different types of clients. Established communication between different applications running on same/different platforms using WCF. Environment: .Net Framework 3.5, ASP.Net Web Forms, WCF, C#.Net, Crystal Reports, Oracle 10g, VS 2008, IIS, Team Suite. Confidential  .NET Developer  Responsibilities: Experience in Development, Integration and Deployment of application. Experience in coding of Business Logic Layer and Data Access Layer using c#. Experience in Code Reviews and design, code documentation. Implemented Custom Error handlers, Custom Exceptions, Custom Error Pages. Developed web forms, user controls and custom controls. Implemented unit testing for automated tools. Implemented validations using built-in validation controls and used JavaScript for Client side validation UsedStyle sheets and Master Pages for achieving uniformity throughout the application Developed Tables, Triggers, Views, stored procedures using the Sql server database Experience in testing and fixing the issues occurred in the testing process Environment: .Net Framework 2.0, c#, asp.net 2.0, ado.net, Sql server 2005, VS 2005, IIS, Enterprise Library, VSS Confidential  .NET Developer  Responsibilities: Experience in requirement gathering, analysis, design, and developing using ASP.NETFramework. Designing Data Base objects using Microsoft Visio Developed and used various Web forms, Custom controls and user controls using ASP.NETand C#. Extensively used JavaScript for client side validations. Implemented unit, system and regression testing using manual and automated tools. Load data from Ftp site and Web service to Sql Server 2005 using SSIS. Created Tables, Stored Procedures, Triggers and Views in Sql server database. Design and develop N-tier business applications based on analysis of user needs and requests. Experience in Unit testing of modules and bug fixing. Created SSIS packages import the data from third party vendors. Environment: .Net Framework 2.0, C#.Net, ASP.NET 2.0, SQL Server 2000, VS 2005, ADO.NET, VSS,XML, IIS and SSIS. 