SUMMARY Having overall 7+ years of Software industry experience as Software Quality Engineer. Focus TEMPhas been in Test Automation, Functional Testing, Rest API Testing and Mobile Native App Testing in AGILE environment. Strong Experience with Agile methodology, Waterfall and Software Development life cycle(SDLC). Extensive experience on automation framework development using Selenium Web Driver, Cucumber, Java, TestNG, Maven and other open source tools. Developed Page Object Model (POM) and Hybrid automation frameworks using Selenium WebDriver\TestNG Jenkins CI\CD continuous integration development for automation tests for quick releases Created Jenkin Jobs for nightly runs for automation suites and triage failures and fix and run tests remotely in Saucelab. Developed automation script for Mobile Native applications (IOS, Android) using Appium, Java. Project estimation, Test Strategy, Test Plan, Test Metrics and Report dashboard. Implemented BDD (Behavior Driven Development), TDD (Test Driven Development) using Cucumber and developed cucumber test scenarios in feature file and step definitions. Experienced in distributed test automation execution using Selenium Grid, Jenkins and run tests in Saucelab machines. Participated in formal test case reviews with teh technical and business team. Excellent skill in finding bugs and defect management tools HP ALM, Jira, Rally, Vipers. Mobile Native app testing on Android platform IOS. Strong Knowledge in BitBucket, Git hub, Perforce and SVN. Hands on experience in Agile Tool Rally, Jira and Vipers. Extensive experience with Onshore/Offshore model. Strong analytical, trouble - shooting, works under pressure and problem-solving skills. Experienced with various types of testing like System testing, functional testing, Regression testing, Integration testing, REST API testing and Mobile Native App testing. Experience collaborating across ecosystems and across functional areas. Analytical skills for designing test scenarios, developing data driven test cases TECHNICAL SKILLS Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile/Scrum Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Selenium Grid, Cucumber, UFT, SoapUI, QTP, Appium, Eclipse, PostMan Build & Integration Tools: Maven, Jenkins, Saucelabs Version Control tool: BitBucket, GitHub, SVN, Perforce Programming Languages: HTML5, JAVA\J2EE, C, C++ Databases: MySQL, Oracle11g, SQL Server, PL/SQL Defect Management Tools: HP ALM, JIRA, RALLY PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Atlanta, GA Sr. QA Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in SPRINT planning for teh QA user stories and coordination with engineering, product team, external teams on requirement study, design analysis and execution. Designing and developing teh Page Object Model automation framework from start using Selenium WebDriver, Java, TestNG and Maven for Web Application. Developed teh Java Pages for each Web page in framework. Created functional automation test scripts using Java, Selenium and TestNG. Performed Data-Driven testing using Apache POI library to read test data from Excel & Properties files. Implemented BDD (Behavior Driven Development) framework using Cucumber and developed End-to-End Test scenarios in feature file and created step definitions. Developed automation script for Mobile Native applications (IOS, Android) using Appium, Java. Created Jenkins CI\CD continuous integration for automation suites and executed Jenkins Jobs. Created functional Manual Testcases in HP AML tests management tool for Collateral, Facility, Address Validation, Document Vaulting, Deal, Lien Management and etc., features. Execute teh current sprint functional testcases. Push teh automated tests to BitBucket and created pull request for merge in GitHub. Creating Manual functional test cases for current sprint for new features and peer Review. Working with Offshore team and review teh automation tests scripts and providing teh review comments. Review teh code in BitBucket and merge teh pull request with teh Master branch. Develop teh test plan, test strategy and review with pears. Involved in Production release testing and sign-off. Working with cross teams for Integration testing. Defects logging in Jira and follow-up with Dev team until closure. Preparation of status reports and test summary report and publish to teh team. Functional and Cross Browser testing of Defined Browser Stack of teh site experience Defect Triaging and Release sign off for Continuous Delivery cycles. Environment: Java, Selenium WebDriver, Cucumber, TestNG, Maven, HP ALM(QC), Jenkins, Bitbucket, Jira, GitHub, SourceTree, Eclipse, Appium. Confidential, Plano, TX Sr. QA Engineer Responsibilities: Actively participated and Interacted with product management teams in teh review and analysis of functional requirements. Developed Page Object Model automation framework using Selenium Web Driver, Cucumber, Java, TestNG, Maven for Mortgage Loan Application. Worked on automation of regression and smoke test cases using Selenium WebDriver and Java. Executed teh automation test scripts and analyzed teh results in various stages of teh application including integration, regression, functional and acceptance testing. Worked on UFT automation framework for teh legacy mortgage application. Created UFT automation test cases and executed for regression testing. Created RTM Matrix, ensured teh Test Planning, Testing Strategy, Test cases, workflows are capturing and covering all teh Functional/Non-Functional requirements. Validated teh data in MySQL database by writing SQL Queries. Created and executed SQL Queries in TOAD Performed Smoke, Functional and Regression Testing of teh application. Prepared Test Data and created test input requirements for Data Driven Testing. Generated testing metrics and reports via Quality Center. Update defects "real-time" in Defect Action board meetings. Work with users and coordinators on submitting defects in HP Quality Center. Experience in using ETL toolInformaticaPower Center 8 to execute teh workflows, monitor and understanding teh mappings design. Used complex SQL Queries to perform back-end Database testing. Environment: Java, Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Eclipse IDE, Oracle DB, Toad, SQL Developer, Tomcat. Confidential, San Diego, CA Automation QE Engineer Responsibilities: Analyzed Functional and Business Requirements to get a better understanding of teh mmp on both functional and business perspectives using Agile Methodology Implemented Page Objects model (POM) Frameworks using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Java. Involved in automating test cases using Selenium WebDriver with TestNG, Java. Developed automation script for Mobile Native applications (IOS, Android) using Appium, Java. Performed teh Mobile Testing for Mobile App of Client, identify teh Mobile Platform like IOS, Android by using Appium. Performed functional and browser compatibility testing on mobile (Windows Mobile), web and desktop applications (Windows). Used IOS Simulator and Emulator for mobile app testing. Developed and executed Test Cases based on teh requirement documents and managed it using HP Quality Center. Interacted with teh developers to help resolve critical issues. Involved in design and Implementation of Protractor Testing for Angular JS code base. Used Keyword and Data driven framework. Used QC/ALM for Defect Management. Environment: Selenium Webdriver, Appium, TestNG, Eclipse, HP ALM, JIRA, SQL, Java, SVN Confidential, Seattle, WA QA Engineer Responsibilities: Analysis of Business and Requirement Specifications. Designing Test Lab and formulation of Test Strategy, Test Plans Performed functional testing to identify various critical points in teh application and automated it by using Selenium WebDriver. Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven tool and created Selenium automation scripts in java using Junit prior to agile release. Involved in implementation of Test Automation Framework using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and Maven technologies under Java platform utilizing industry leading harness design patterns and approaches. Experience in test script execution, defect creation for NextGen project and provided training to QA team regarding how to open a defect in Quality Center. Used MS Project for recording all teh information of NextGEN Projects and discussed in teh Project Meeting. Involved in designing and building automation frameworks in support of continuous integration in a test-driven development (TDD). Performed various mobile gestures (Long Press, Multi Touch, Drag & Drop, Swipe), Identified mobile elements using Appium Inspector, UI Automator Viewer. Performed white box testing using Postman tool to validate teh Rest APIs. Implemented simulator for Mobile App Testing in Android and IOS Platform using Appium. Involved in touch testing with IOS app using Appium tool. Teh entire Ruby scripting done using Cucumber Framework Wrote and executed SQL queries to verify teh data updates to various tables and ensure data integrity. Used Jenkins as continuous integration server to run automated test suites. Used Selenium WebDriver to run test cases in multiple browsers and Platforms. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, Jenkins, Maven, Appium (Android, IOS), TestNG, Java, Android, SQL, Oracle. Confidential - Charlotte, NC QA Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in automation framework using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven. Implemented Data Driven automation framework with Selenium WebDriver. Used GitHub as a source control for Selenium Scripts. Involved in executing Selenium automation scripts in Jenkins Jobs and updating teh scripts according to enhanced requirements using Selenium WebDriver\Java. Responsible End to End testing for each release by coordinating with different integration teams for both upstream and downstream systems. Logged defects using Bug Tracking system JIRA to reporting and track teh bugs to closure. Communicated with development team to resolve teh issues and performed regression testing. Designed and Developed Test plan based on BRD and User Stories Developed and executed test cases for SOAP and REST services using Soap UI tool. Performed functional, regression, and manual black box testing. Retested teh fixed defects and monitored them until resolved. Performed Load and Stress Testing, monitored teh response time and system behavior. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Jenkins, SOAP UI, Eclipse, Quality Center, Agile, JIRA Confidential, Philadelphia, PA QA Engineer Responsibilities: Reviewed design documents & business requirements to learn teh function and scope of teh applications under test. Involved in writing Test Plan for teh testing effort of teh module. Performed manual testing on various modules. Followed Agile & Scrum Methodology in dis project. Used QTP automation to validate links, objects, images, text on Web pages. Defining user defined parameters to execute various functions in QTP. Writing of some necessary requirements for application in Quality Center (QC). Created End-to-End test scripts in QTP automation. Performed System testing to verify teh application under test is as per teh business requirements and performed End-to-End testing. Maintained Test Matrix and Requirements Traceability Matrix, Test Data Requirements Matrix. Conducted Integration, Security and Regression testing for each build and version. Manually tested teh GUI interfaces of teh application for Functionality Testing Environment: Traditional Waterfall environment, HP AML, quick test Pro(QTP), Rally, manual testing and Internet explorer, Java, SVN 