SUMMARY 7+ years of experience with a focus on analyzing system functionality, design and implementation of QA testing methodology and extensive use of all QA and Object - Oriented practice to design test automation framework. Extensive working experience on all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), its methodologies such as Agile, SCRUM and waterfall Model. Experience in developing and executing Testing Lifecycle, Test Plan, Test Cases, Test Execution, Defect Report, and Requirement Traceability Matrix. Experienced in Web Services and API testing by using SoapUI. Experienced in using Postman for API testing using POST, GET, PUT, and DELETE. Expertise in the Bug tracking process, familiar with Bug Reporting and Tracking using Defect Management tools (JIRA, HP QC/ALM, Bugzilla). Performed back-end testing by executing SQL queries such as stored procedures over various database products on Window platform. Experience in the development of Data Driven, Behavior Driven Automation frameworks using tools like Specflow and Cucumber. Experienced in developing and executing manual and automated tests in different platforms using C#, .NET frameworks and Java with the Selenium libraries. Expertise in Smoke Testing, Backend Testing, Black Box/White Box Testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), Functional Testing, Positive/Negative Testing, System Testing, Regression Testing, GUI Software Testing. Excellent troubleshooting skills and ability to determine the root cause of complex issues. Extensive experience in coordinating the testing effort, responsible for test deliverables, status reporting to management, issue escalations. Experienced in designing, developing and maintaining test scripts, analyzing bugs and interacting with development team members in concluding on a defect resolution. Excellent knowledge in writing unique XPath using firebug and firepath to identify web elements. Experience in designing and implementing BDD Framework using Cucumber and Specflow. Working experience on Continuous Integration tools like Jenkins. Documented and tracked defects and produced detailed reports using Jira and TFS (Team Foundation Server). Excellent experience with source version control tools such as SVN, Source Tree, and GITLab. Exposure to all aspects of Testing, Maintenance, Troubleshooting and Production Support. Worked well in diverse teams to achieve goals through effective communication and interpersonal skills. Also worked independently in a fast-paced environment with tight deadlines. Communicate clearly, effectively, and quickly both verbally and written. A self-motivated, able to adapt to challenges and ability to grasp concepts quickly. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: C#.NET, Java, CSS, HTML, XML, SQL Databases: MS SQL Server, Oracle, MS Access Testing tools: Selenium WebDriver, Selenium Grid, Quality Center, Postman, TFS, JIRA, SOAP UI, RESTful, HP ALM, Jenkins, Microsoft Test Manager, NUnit, TestNG, JUnit IDE: Eclipse, Visual Studio, IntelliJ Operating Systems: Windows, Mac, Linux Other Tools: Qmetry, SVN, SourceTree, BitBucket, GIT PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Monroe, LA SDET Responsibilities: Performed meetings with Business Analysts and End Clients to review functional/technical requirements, and translate business requirements into quality assurance test cases. Attended daily Scrum Meetings with the Team Lead and Developers and executed daily tasks based on the Agile Methodology. Worked with Business Analysts to prepare Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), positive and negative test scenarios, detailed oriented Test Scripts. Assisted in writing the Test Strategy to be used for functional, regression, integration, and end to end testing. Performed RESTful api web services testing using Postman. Automated different REST api/web services methods using C# .NET HttpClient library. Conducted user acceptance testing (UAT) to validate that the developed application meets the business requirements. Automated Web-based, Highly transactional and large Client/Server applications. Extensively automated regression and functional test suites by developing multiple test cases and test suites using Selenium WebDriver with C#. Used Selenium WebDriver to test the compatibility of the tests across multiple servers/browsers. Participated in BDD (Behavior Driven Development) approach using NUnit, Gherkin, and Specflow. Used Automated scripts and performed functionality testing during the various phases of the application development using Selenium, C#, and Specflow (BDD). Extensively used project management tools like TFS. Wrote several complex SQL queries for data verification and data quality check. Wrote SQL queries extensively, queried the database and generated test reports. Performed defect tracking and management in TFS. Worked in highly dynamic Agile Environment and participated in scrum and sprint meetings. Worked extensively on Agile and Scrum methodology. Analyzed the testing progress by conducting walk-through meetings with internal quality assurance groups and development groups. Performed CI/CD process using tools like Jenkins. Participated in weekly status meetings, and conducted walkthroughs for team members, and documented the proceedings. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, C#, NUnit, Specflow, Jenkins, REST api, BDD, TFS, Postman, HTML, XML, XPath, SQL Server, Windows, and UNIX. Confidential, Chicago, IL Automation Test Engineer Responsibilities: Performed Automation and Manual Testing for the web-based application. Actively participated in the Daily Scrum Meeting, Sprint Grooming, Sprint Planning, Sprint Demo, Sprint Retrospective Meetings. Participated in requirement specification and documentation review meetings with developers and BA team. Responsible for planning, creating and analyzing of Test Plan, Test cases and Test Scripts.Participated in Production support and user feedback sessions. Applied Page Object Model (POM) to the framework to centralize web elements of the application; increased reusability and maintainability of the code. Developed Test Scripts to test the functionality of the application and execute automation scripts on different browsers/environments and reported defects through JIRA.Used Postman to manually test web services and API. Maintained Maven project written in Java and executed Tests in Cucumber feature files in a BDD based framework.Used TestNG annotations to declare test method, pass data in the test method, etc. Automated test reports using Cucumber plugin HTML reports and JSON reports attached with failed scenario screenshots using Selenium WebDriver. Experienced in creating automated tests for SOAP and REST Web Services using Apache HTTP Client. Used JDBC to do Database testing with Java Programming Language.Created SQL queries and connected to various Databases using JDBC and applied to my test scripts for database validation. Performed Smoke, Functional, Regression, Frontend and Backend Tests using Selenium WebDriver, Java and JDBC. Actively dealt with data tables, calendars, iframes, pop-ups, and alerts on the application using Selenium WebDriver. Created Feature files and test scenarios in Cucumber using Gherkin language. Performed extensive Cross Browser Compatibility testing on various web browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome, using Selenium WebDriver. Environment: Agile, Java, Maven, TestNG, IntelliJ, Selenium Webdriver, Postman, JSON, Windows, Cucumber, SQL. Confidential, Plano, Texas QA Automation Analyst Responsibilities: Developed and executed the test scripts with Selenium Webdriver and Java. Within Software Test Life Cycle (STLC), I have been involved both directly and indirectly with Test Requirement Identification, Project Setup, Planning Estimation, Test Strategy, Test Outline, Test Design, Test Plan reports, Automation, Test Execution, Regression reports. Followed Agile testing methodology, participated in daily SCRUM meetings and tested each SPRINT deliverable. Used Maven as the build tool, TestNG as the testing framework and BDD as the framework to write automation scripts. Participated in Test Planning and Automation Effort estimations. Reviewed Business Requirement documents (BRD) and Functional Specifications Documents (FSD) to prepare Test Cases and identify Test Scenarios. Participated in daily scrum meetings to report daily progress of Automation activities and Sprint planning meetings. Involved in creation of Automation Framework that uses Java and Selenium Webdriver. Executed test cases and test scripts for manual and automation testing. Used XPath, CSS Selector, ID, Name, Link Text locatorsto identify objects. Performedcross-browser testing and executed test cases on multiple platforms using Selenium Webdriver. Used firebug and firepath to locate web elements in the web application. UsedJirato open bugs, create tasks and user stories, initiate change requests and deploy the application. Responsible for updating and maintenance of existing seleniums cripts. Used Postman for testing JSON RESTful web services and api. Performed extensive Backend testing using SQL Queries to retrieve the data from the database and checked data integrity. Executed End-to-End test scenarios. Extensively involved in resolving bugs fixes with the Development Team. Environment: Selenium Webdriver, Java, Maven, Cucumber, Visual Studio, Firebug, FirePath, Web Services, RESTful, TFS, SQL Server. Confidential, Dallas, TX QA Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Reviewed Business Requirement Documents, Functional and Technical Specifications. Extensively worked on Agile Development and management process. Responsible for planning regression test stories in every Sprint. Documented Test cases corresponding to business rules. Involved in Functional Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing, UAT Testing, Interface Testing. Wrote Test Automation Script using C#, Selenium WebDriver and NUnit. Worked on the Groups Member Eligibility Module in the Facets Application. Involved in testing the conversion of Members/Subscribers and Financial Claims. Worked on the automation templates for the Groups, Sub-Groups, Subscribers etc. Executed numerous test cases, verified new features, and logged defects in TFS tool. Extensively Involved in writing SQL Queries to retrieve the data from the database. Involved in writing test cases for Functional and Regression Testing. Performed End-to-End Testing and helped UAT team in performing User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Conducted functionality tests to make sure that the Application Under Test (AUT) met its functional requirements. Involved in QA status meetings to resolve the issues and had good coordination with Other Teams. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, NUnit, C#, Visual Studio, TFS, SOAPUI Pro, MS Excel, PowerPoint, MS Word. Confidential, Irving, TX QA Engineer Responsibilities: Reviewed Project Artifacts, analyzed Requirements, designed the test plan and provided a weekly status report that includes testing metrics, test logs, and tests summary reports. Conducted walkthrough meetings with SDLC team to understand the functionality, risk and operations management of the application. Validated Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) and Users Requirement documents to prepare SIT test plan and test scenarios. Conducted manual and automated testing for functional and non-functional test cases. Created test data for QTP scripts, used external data sources and excel sheets to import test data. Developed SQL Queries to query Database to test the back-end of the application. Effectively managed the testing process using HP Mercury Quality Centre to manage the requirement and test case and have clear traceability between them. Document the defects using the HP Mercury Quality Centre and track them to completion by communicating and coordinating with the development as well as support groups. Coordinated with the onshore and offshore resources. Set up the test environment and was responsible for the migration between the Development Environment and Testing Environment. Created and executed test cases to test SAS products of GE integrated with base applications for rewards and marketing reports. Worked on testing SOAP services using SOAPUI. Environment: Quality Center, JIRA, QTP, SQL Server 2005/2008, MYSQL. 