SUMMARY Over Six years of IT experience and expertise in Software Quality Assurance Testing, Analysis, Validation and Documentation of Web Based, GUI, and Mainframe applications. Extensively experienced in testing of various industries. Experienced in developing and analyzing Test Plan, Test Strategy, Test Cases, Test Data, execution of regression Test Scripts and analyzing Test Results. Well - versed wif software QA testing procedure. Experienced in participating in all type of reviews including Project Requirements, design documents, business documents, Test Cases, Test log and Defects. Strong Quality Assurance experience wifin agile environment as well as waterfall. Extensively experienced in all phases of testing include Smoke Testing, Functional Testing, System testing, Backend testing, Regression testing, and User Acceptance testing (UAT). Collaborating wif development team usingJIRA. Experienced wif defect tracking and Test Management tool using HP Quality Center/ALM. Extensively experienced wif all HP Quality Center/ALM modules Management, Requirements, Test Plan, Test Lab, Defects and Dashboard. Proficient in Backend Testing and Data Integrity Testing using SQL and PL/SQL Queries. Strong Knowledge in developing Hybrid Driven Framework, Business Process Testing Framework (BPT), Keyword Driven Framework, and Data Driven Framework using QTP/UFT. Experienced in setting up the Automated Testing Environment for creating, and running automated tests using QTP/UFT. Strong hands on experience in design User define functions, Descriptive Programming and VB Script. Experienced in executing, maintaining Test Scripts and updating when the business rules change. Experienced in testing various web services using SOAP UI tool. Ability to work independently and as part of a team; highly dedicated to produce professional work wif highest quality and creativity. Team player and self-starter always committed to Organization, Quality and strived to improve customer satisfaction. TECHNICAL SKILLS Development Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile, Scrum Testing Tools Knowledge: HP Quick Test Pro (QTP), HP UFT, HP Quality Center(QC), HP ALM, JIRA, SOAP UI Databases: Oracle, MS SQL Server Programming/Scripting Languages: Java, VB Script, SQL, PL-SQL, JavaScript, HTML, C/C++, C#, .Net Other Technology tools: PowerPoint, MS-Office, MS Excel, MS Visio, MS Outlook PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Wilmington, DE QA Analyst Responsibilities: Developed Automated Test Scripts using VB Script. Performed step by step testing of software systems and fully documented results wifin the test scripts. Performed both manual & automated testing procedures. Worked wif engineers to drive improvements in code quality via automated and manual testing. Participated in all phases of test execution and documentation including functional, regression, System, usability, integration and acceptance testing. Involved in whole life cycle of QA methodology starting from planning, capturing, logging, executing reporting and tracking the defects using HP ALM. Executed test plan and defect tracking wif HP ALM. Created SQL Queries and did extensive Data validation in backend. Enhanced and Maintained test scripts for various functional and regression testing using UFT. Created Test scripts using VB Script and added objects in Object Repository in UFT. Created Smoke test script using UFT for any new project or any tested modified. Automated AUT application using UFT. Involved extensive multi browser testing wif UFT. Involved in Web Service testing using SOAP UI. Assisted in maintaining quality assurance operation logs, databases, and generating metrics for status reporting as needed. Controlled and managed daily test activities. Communicated issues and risks related to work assignments. Assisted wif meeting agendas and meeting notes. Environment: JMeter, HTML, HP ALM, HP UFT, MS Project, MS Visio, Java, J2EE, Java Script, VB Script, XML, SQL Server, MS Office, Windows, SOAP UI, UNIXC, C++, C#, .Net. Confidential, West Falls Church, Virginia QA Engineer Responsibilities: Developed Test Conditions from Business Requirements, Scope documents, High Level Design documents in Test Conditions Expected Results matrix. Assisted in developing Test Plan and Test cases for Smoke testing and Regression Testing. Conducted extensive Smoke Testing, Regression Testing and Sanity Testing on the application. Assisted in creating Detailed Timelines, Test Plans and Test Strategies for major releases and organized strategy review meetings. Performed Regression Testing on the application using HP ALM/Quality Center. Established Traceability between the Requirements and the Tests in Traceability Matrix using HP ALM/Quality Center. Worked wif SQL queries to retrieve data and perform data. Analyzed Test Conditions and developed Manual Test Scripts for new Functionality test cases in UFT. Designed and implemented Automation Test Frameworks (Data-driven and Keyword) using UFT. Customized the UFT Test as per the Test Case by using the VB-Script. Assisted the process of analyzing expected results using UFT. Performed detailed Test results analysis after each test execution cycle and maintained Test results. Reported test results and status as appropriate. Communicated test progress, test results, and other relevant information to stakeholders and management. Provided data reporting, analysis and support for operations and support teams. Environment: MS Visio, C#, Java, Java Script, C/C++, TOAD, Oracle, SQL Server, Windows, PHP, HTML, Agile, MS Office, UNIX, MS Excel, HP ALM/Quality Center, UFT/QTP. Confidential, New York, NY Software Tester Responsibilities: Conducted Review of Test Strategy and Test Plan to Designer, Developers and Business Team to ensure the critical areas are covered in testing. Mocked up the Test Data required for the testing in the various test Environments based on Data conditioning and Account Conditioning Analysis. Tested the Complex Functional Test Scripts, Integration Test Scripts and Release Test Scripts in the Test Environment in three consecutive Cycles. Prepared Functional, Integration and Release Test Cases explaining the step by step process of testing the functionality. Conducted GAP analysis and filling gap according to the format set by HIPAA. Involved in FACETS Implementation, involved end-to-end testing of FACETS Billing, Claim Processing and Subscriber/Member module. Uploaded the diagnosis codes, procedure codes to the related tables in test environment to verify the changes related to ICD9 - ICD-10 changes. Involved in Regression testing, Stress Testing and UAT. Tracked and reported defects using Quality Center/ALM. Wrote scripts in Quality center for Script Workflow to update field's value in Defects. Maintained and executed QTP Script from Quality Center/ALM. Developed Driver Script, Startup Script and Utility Functions in QTP/UFT. Developed Automation Framework for automation suite, which involves Data, library and Core classes using QTP/UFT. Performed other duties as requested by management on demand. Allocated technical resources to address defects/issues during testing phases. Environment: Quality Center, QTP, HTML, VBScript, Java, Java Script, .Net, C, C++, MS SQL Server, Web Services, Windows, UNIX. 