SUMMARY 9+ years of engineering experience in Manual & Automation testing across Banking(BFSI), Workforce Management, Hospitality and Telecom Domains. Experience in complete Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Good experience in methodologies like Waterfall, V - model, Agile, Scrum and DevOps processes. Experience in creating and solving teh complex challenges in automation using Selenium WebDriver. Created a framework using Selenium, TestNG and Maven/Gradle for an enterprise application includes Banking, Workforce Management, Hospitality and Telecom Domains. Integrated test suites to run on daily, weekly builds and early detection of defects using CI/CD(Jenkins). Created automated reporting of test automation as to track teh broken functionalities on build basis. Experience in strategizing test approach and implementing BDD using Cucumber. Did a POC and implemented TDD approach on enterprise application on a sprint fashion and yield a good ROI. Implemented data driven framework approach using excel with Apache POI library, SQL, config files and Hybrid frameworks. Experience in automating mobile applications using Appium. Good experience in automating REST API’s using Rest Assure and SOAP UI. Worked on fetching teh data’s from JSON and XML. Exposure in programming languages like Java, and scripting tools like JavaScript, HTML, Shell script and UI styling using CSS. Handled test automation across multiple browsers (IE, Safari, Chrome, and Firefox). Expertise in using Tools Mercury/HP Quality Center(ALM), Rational Clear Quest, Bugzilla, Rally, VersionOne and JIRA. UsedAutoIt, Robot API toolsin automation for Mouse movements, Keystrokes, Window control manipulations and print pop-ups which is not possible using selenium WebDriver. Can perform switch over to elements iniframesusing WebDriver. Experience with UAT testing along with data setup, Environment setup and coordination between users, Development, Business Analyst and Product Management teams. Generated and reviewed test reports using Allure/Extent test reports. Good experience in data sources, data profiling, data validation, developing low-level design patterns based on teh business and functional requirements. Knowledge on JMeter and Gatling. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Sr. QA Automation/Selenium Engineer Confidential, Warwick, RI Responsibilities: Involved in Requirements review and Design review to provide review comments with respect to testing. Developed Test Cases, Test Scripts and Test Scenarios. Developed Test cases Using Quality Centre based on requirements gatheird from Functional Specifications and Design documents. Involved in manual and automated testing of teh applications using Selenium. Validate teh data on Mainframes (DB2). Create test data using File-Aid. Created test data both for manual (Test and Prod env) and automation testing. Created teh Traceability matrix between requirements and Test Cases. Performed validation of Web Services using SAOP UI. UsedSeleniumGRID to execute test cases on multiple platforms. UsedAutoIt, Robot API toolsin automation for Mouse movements, Keystrokes, Window control manipulations and print pop-ups which is not possible using selenium WebDriver. Can perform switch over to elements iniframesusing WebDriver. Performed data driven testing with multiple sets of data and closely interacted with teh development team to verify and validate defects. Working on Android and iOS Automation Tools (Selenium, and Appium) for testing Native apps. Used HP ALM as a test repository and test management tool. Conducted defect triage meeting to discuss on defects and its prioritization, identified in teh phases of Functional Testing, Integration Testing, Regression and System testing. Validating teh account creation process in Finacle and verifying teh account creation through teh middleware services and hit teh downstream systems of DB2. Validated Upstream and downstream systems and their request and responses using RHF Util and SOAP UI. Validated API Key generations and their tokens. Verify service responses, service health checks dat hits prism module and loan eligibility criteria’s. Worked on teh Payment Gateway integrating third party application and providers like (Samsung Pay), automated teh payment gateway transaction using mock data. Integrated third party payment wallets into payment gateway. Wrote SQL Queries and SQL Statements to validate database integrity. Generated and reviewed test reports using Allure test reports. Maintained Metrics participated in weekly status updates showing teh progress of teh testing effort and open issues to be resolved. Environment: Java, J2EE, HP Quality Center, Mainframes, ALM, Rational suite, SQL, Oracle, TOAD, XML Spy, SOAP UI, MS Office, APPIUM, IOS, Android. QA Automation Engineer Confidential Responsibilities: Defined testing methodologies, test plans and test cases. Verified and validated teh system and documentation based on standards for software development and TEMPeffective QA implementation in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Created and updated documentation relating to teh quality assurance processes and procedures using tools such as Confluence. Involved in User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Created test scripts from teh test plans and identified test scenarios and top priority test cases. Tested application for Security, Accessibility, Usability and Performance Standards. Involved in installation and configuration ofSeleniumsoftware. Developed maintained and executed automation test scripts usingSeleniumWebDrivereclipse IDE and TestNG. Tested application for Security, Accessibility, Usability and Performance Standards. Involved in frameworks using TestNG. Involved in browser compatibility testing (Chrome/Firefox/Safari/IE). Maintain teh test suites in current projects with new or modified features, tracking script versions in SVN source control systems and source tree. Used log4j and configuration files to generate daily logs for performance testing. Worked with support to troubleshoot, understand and recreate teh major issues our customers are encountering. Performed all aspects of testing including smoke test, functional, system, and regression tests on teh E-commerce applications. Written Functional test scripts and reused some of teh functional test scripts for Regression Testing. Involved in writing manual test cases. Performed thorough regression testing when bugs are resolved. Documented and reported all defects using JIRA. Used Reporting and Extent report for creating Test reports. Worked with source version control tool such as Subversion (SVN). Reported bugs and opened sifters (using bug tracking tool sifter) when found bugs. Interacted with developers to ensure quality during problem resolution and retesting solutions. Facilitated meetings to achieve desired timelines, metrics and goals. Environment: Web applications, manual test scripts, MS Windows, JavaScript,SeleniumWebDriver, Maven, Log4j, TestNG, SVN, Source Tree, JIRA. QTP Automation Tester Confidential Responsibilities: Extensively usedQTPintegrated environment like Data Table, Actions and Recovery scenarios. Ensures dat teh existing functionality is working properly by performing regression testing withQTP Scripts. Performed Manual Functional testing with QC and Regression Testing withQTP. GenerateQTPscripts for Applications by using VB Script. ConductedData Driven TestingusingRFTto test teh application with different sets of data. Performed teh Back-End testing to ensure data consistency on front-end by writing and executing SQL statements. Retrieved files using SQL statements and UNIX commands. Executed and managed test cases and reported bugs in Quality Center (ALM), Test Director, test management suites for writing test cases, test execution, defect management, defect tracking and Bug Reporting. Experience in assessing project requirements, development and test status, changes, coverage and risks using QC (ALM). Involved in writing Test plan and perform manual Testing. Prepared manual test cases on web and mobile applications as per requirements. Created teh Traceability matrix between requirements and Test Cases. Participated in review meetings with project team. Environment: QTP, RFT, ALM, Quality Center(ALM), SQL, WebLogic, VBScript, Windows, waterfall, UNIX QA Analyst Confidential  Responsibilities:  Created teh test scripts depending upon Provided Documents and user stories Reviewed Functional requirement and Use Cases documented in Requisite Pro Setting Test plan and Test Lab in teh Quality center for teh projects to create and access requirements, defects, test cases and reports for teh status. Created and executed detailed test cases with step by step procedure and expected results and maintained teh test logs, test reports, test issues, defect tracking using Quality Center. Responsible for software QA and analysis, with emphasis on performancetestingand functional decomposition of web-based application. Middleware testing on EIS. Executed SQL queries to verify teh database for teh relevant test cases. Conducted test case reviews and presented teh test cases/test scenarios to teh team members for all iterations. Participated in daily SCRUM meetings and gave teh daily status oftesting. Documented teh defects in Quality Center and assigned them to relevant developer. Prepared Test Data depending upon teh Test Scripts and as per teh user story requirements. Logging and Tracking teh defects using defect tracking tool. Environment: PHP, PERL, CGI, HTML, PL/SQL, Apache HTTP Server 2.0, Windows XP/2000, Oracle 10gR2, SQL, QC.                        