SUMMARY Over 13 years of IT industry experience of which 9 years in Test Automation using multiple frameworks, APIs and scripting languages and 4 years in software development. 5+ years of experience in leading and managing onsite - offshore model engagements as a Sr. Lead, Test Lead and Delivery Lead. Led projects in planning, managing scope of individual modules and change control in each drop. Designed Automation frameworks (Hybrid, Page Object Model) using Selenium (WebDriver) & QTP. Proficient in automation using programming (Java, Ruby, C/C++) and scripting languages (MS Jscript, VB Scripting, UNIX shell & TCSH (Extended C shell). Coded scripts in BDD and TDD test practices using Cucumber, TestNG and JUnit frameworks. Developed automation scripts for applications used in Education, Litigation support (Patents, Electronic data discovery), e-Commerce Stores (Retail), Portfolio Management (IT Projects), Windows shell components, Finance and in automotive domain. Validated ETL functions and verification of API data end points consumed by services of application. Validated API tests (coded in Java) failures in advance for every deployment to reduce defect injection. Generated analysis report on litigations using BI tools. Developed customized reports that can be generated on project or portfolio of projects as well as resources and resource pools. Reports are driven by the data generated in OLAP Pivots based on different datasets like Health, Scope elements, WBS / Deliverable elements, and Tasks etc. Worked wif business analyst and design leads in reviewing the design documents and ensuring that they are signed off before release. Led all testing aspects of a project that follow Agile Software Development wif Scrum. Estimated effort required for QA deliverables including automation. Stood in top 3 in Client’s product subject matter assessment test conducted in first 2 weeks, during onsite visit while working wif Hinduja Tech Ltd. Received certificate of appreciation for outstanding contribution to the project while working wif Confidential Inc. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Java, Ruby, Scala, C++, SQL Automation Tools: Selenium (WebDriver), WATIR WebDriver, Cucumber, QTP (Quick Test Professional), AST, WTT (Windows Test Technologies), Appium Test Harness: JUnit, TestNG, ROBOT Databases & NoSQL: DB2, Oracle 8.1, PostgreSQL, Mongodb Bug Tracking Tools: Rally, Jira, Confidential Product Studio, Merant Tracker, HPQC (Quality Center) Build and CI Tools: Jenkins, Maven, ANT, Autosys Incident Management: HPSM (HP IT Service Manager) WCS Tools: IBM Management Center for WebSphere Commerce, WebSphere Commerce Accelerator, Administration Console Version Control: Github, PVCS, VSS Manual Tools: Magen, DiskHog, Eatmem, Interrogator PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, San Jose, CA Automation Lead Responsibilities: Validate migration of learning data from CK to CLL. Develop API automation scripts in Java using REST assured DSL. Validate API/Functional tests failures in advance for every deployment to reduce defect injection. Develop functional automation test scripts in Ruby controlled by Cucumber (Behavior Driven Development) and Selenium Webdriver. Framework is integrated wif Jenkins. Analyze stories and estimating effort required for QA deliverables including automation. Led Go/No Go meeting for each drop and control deployment on QA, UAT and Prod environments. Track team deliverables in Rally and generate dashboard report. Analyze logs in ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana) stack and identify issues in advance to ensure quality of data flow. Analyze knowledge maps generated based on upstream component data. Environment: Maven, Eclipse, Github, Rally, Jenkins, Putty, MySQL, Moodle, MongoDb Confidential Lead Responsibilities: Manage scope of individual modules, planning, tracking, change control, aspects of the project in each sprint. Validate migration of application from existing cloud to different cloud provider. Develop automation test scripts in Ruby controlled by Cucumber (Behavior Driven Development) and Selenium Webdriver. Framework is integrated wif Jenkins. Validate API/Functional tests failures in advance for every deployment to reduce defect injection. Enhanced existing WATIR-Page Helper model automation framework and reduced effort required to fix automation failures. Coded performance simulation scripts in Scala for load testing tool, Gatling. Successfully migrated existing Career Connection portal data to Collaborative Knowledge portal. Analyze stories and estimating effort required for QA deliverables including automation. Led Go/No Go meeting for each drop and control deployment on QA, UAT and Prod environments. Track team deliverables in Rally and generate dashboard report. Environment: RubyMine, Github, Rally, Jenkins, Putty, Maven, Eclipse, Gatling, MySQL, Moodle, MongoDb, Windows and UNIX Confidential, CA Automation Lead Responsibilities: Planned effort across multiple sprints and made the automation to catch up wif sprint cycle. Led iteration planning, stand ups and retrospective scrum meetings wif client in each sprint. Formed team of senior members and led quality deliverables in automation, manual, performance & db testing projects. Designed litigations analysis report by region/industry/case type/duration. Validated ETL functions and verification of API data end points consumed by services of application. Designed page object model automation framework in Selenium for portal application (built on Ruby on Rails) that supports html5. Automation is controlled by TestNG framework. Prepared regression test suite for completed modules. Framework is integrated wif Jenkins & TestLink. Automated test scripts accordingly in Selenium WebDriver using Java. Environment: Microstrategy, PgAdmin, PostgreSql, Navicat, Putty, Selenium (WebDriver), Eclipse, JMeter, TestLink, Jenkins, Jira, Github, ANT, Maven, Windows & UNIX Confidential Senior System Engineer Responsibilities: Developed customized reports that can be generated on project or portfolio of projects as well as resources and resource pools using Microstrategy. Reports are driven by the data generated in OLAP Pivots based on different datasets like Health, Scope elements, WBS/Deliverable elements, and Tasks. Improved the process of delivery of management reports like KPI, SLO and Biweekly status reports. Led offshore project team in delivering e-commerce store models (b2b & b2c) to client, Confidential using WCS (Websphere Commerce Suite) tools. Designed Automation framework using QTP for Confidential . Tracked test cases/results and defects in HPQC. Reviewed use cases shared by client, Confidential and ensured that team ramp up for b2b process flow. Involved in Unit, System and System Integration testing of e-commerce store modules (ex: Order tracking, Sales Leader, Invoices etc). Developed regression test suite using Selenium WebDriver (Java) for Confidential . Reviewed the requirements to migrate existing e-Commerce store from V5 to V7 based on WebSphere Commerce Suite (V7) wif enhanced new features. Managed Content (Promotions, Product detail, SKU) using Web Sphere Management Center. Configured shipping modes, codes and charges in Commerce suite Accelerator. Controlled flow of messages using Administration Console. Validated the configuration changes done using Fred Hopper. Analyzed, designed and developed shell scripts for Change Requests raised against XMS and also for enhancements in existing modules (HR, SD) of SAP for Confidential . Maintained production shell scripts of XMS that are scheduled wif Autosys. Reviewed and updated Technical Design Document (TDD) and AID (Application information document) based on the enhancements. Addressed the tickets raised against application XMS. Queried the user/card information from database to address tickets/issues in financial transactions. Ensured that Incidents and support requests (tickets) are addressed by team as per SLA. Prepared self-learning material to reduce the training effort, service requests for team. Published news article on “Implementation of RPM (Rational Portfolio Manager)”. Provided day to day direction to the project team and update regular project status to the customer. Confidential Delivery Lead Responsibilities: Prepared delivery plan by analyzing EDD specification requirements received from clients based on volume and type of data under production. Developed/modified code in C/C++ to meet specific custom requirements. Reported activities/progress to project managers, sales team, and clients. Generated high volume of metadata reports by executing shell scripts wif proper arguments .These reports are used for quick review of processed electronic data wif Summation or Concordance. Ensured quality of deliverable through discussions wif project managers and client stakeholders. Ensured quality control of deliverable by approving pre-QC (Analyzed EDD specs) and post-qc (Generated reports meet specs and completing checklist of deliverable). Allocated resources based on volume of data under production. Environment: Metasniper, Confidential Visual Studio, Concordance, Summation, Windows, tcsh (Unix C shell) Confidential Senior Software Engineer Responsibilities: Interacted wif Component owners in defect triage. Collaborated wif Component owners at offshore/onshore for quick fixes. Prepared test plans for each Depth and Broad test pass for Windows XP and Server 2003. Developed scripts in C++ for the components in Shell Area of Windows OS, Test Follow - ups and for MSRCs using xAcc Framework, and MSAA tools. Ensured the code coverage to get test statistics and identify test holes. As part of Automation, scheduled the jobs (API/BVT/TMT) from the WTT Server on to the Client machines by selecting the required machine in a particular pool. Verified Hot Fix / QFE and MSRC. Defects are tracked till fixation through Confidential Product Studio. Assisted team in identifying test buckets and bug prone test areas while generating Test cases using Magen Tool. Executed the test cases generated from Magen and also using Third Party tools (Diskhog, Eatmem) Environment: WTT, MSAA Tools (xAccSpy, Inspect32), Confidential PS, DiskHog, EatMem, Appverifier, MSJscript, C++, xAcc Framework, Magen Tool, WTT Studio. 