SUMMARY Over 7 years of experience in ETL / BI, Data Warehouse Testing, Manual Testing and web based client/server applications Solid experience in the Analysis, design, development, testing and Implementation of Business Intelligence solutions using Data Warehouse/Data Mart Design, ETL, OLAP, BI, Client/Server applications. Tested several complex reports generated by Cognos, Business Objects, SAS, SSRS including Dashboard, Summary Reports, Master Detailed, Drill Down and Score Cards Experience using query tools for Oracle, MS SQL and DB2 and Teradata server to validate reports and troubleshoot data quality issues. Experience wif Agile Methodology. Creating and executing SQL queries to perform Data Integrity testing on an Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, Teradata, MySQL Database to validate and test data using TOAD, SQL Server Management Studio, T - SQL. Well versed in detecting errors and conducting UAT by designing, developing, and executing test cases Performed Backend Database testing on Oracle, MS SQL Server, DB2, Teradata, Hadoop, NoSQL, MongoDB databases, used SQL. Performed Manual and automated testing using HP alm/ Quality center, Jira, MTM, TFS and Test Director. Extensive experience in writing SQL scripts to validate the database systems and for backend database testing. Good experience in data sources, data profiling, data validation, developing low level design patterns based on the business and functional requirements. Ability to quickly adapt to different project environments, work in teams and accomplish difficult tasks independently wifin time frame. Skilled in analyzing business context and requirements for UAT testing purposes Extensively worked on Dimensional modeling, Data cleansing and Data Staging, Data integration of operational sources using ETL processes. Experience in all phases of Software Development life cycle. Excellent communication skills, Good organizational and interpersonal skills, outgoing personality, Self-motivated, hardworking, ability to work independently or cooperatively in a team, eager to learn, ability to adapt based on the demands of work. TECHNICAL SKILLS ETL Tool:  Data Stage, Informatica Power Center 9 / 8.6 Reporting Tools:  IBM Cognos 8.1/Business Objects XI R2/R3 Database:  Oracle10g/9i, SQL Server 2012 / 2005, IBM DB2, Sybase, Teradata 13 and MS-Access Utilities:  Toad, Citrix server, Oracle SQL Developer, SQL Advantage, Putty Testing Tools:  HP Quality Center 9.2 / 10 / ALM, TFS, JIRA, Clear Quest, Rational Clear Case PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Rochester, MN  Sr. QA/ETL Tester Responsibilities: Reviewed the Business Requirement Documents and the Functional Specification. Prepared Test Plan from the Business Requirements and Functional Specification. Tested to verify dat all data were synchronized after the data is troubleshoot and also used SQL to verify/validate my test cases. Tested the ETL process to automate the testing process and also load the test data into the testing tables. Extensively executed SQL queries in order to view successful transactions of data and for validating data. Involved in extensive DATA validation by writing several complex SQL queries and Involved in back-end testing and worked wif data quality issues. Documented the validation rules, error handling and test strategy of the mapping. Tuned the complex SQL queries for better performance by eliminating various performance bottlenecks. Worked in an Agile technology wif Scrum Written several UNIX scripts for invoking data reconciliation. Reported bugs and tracked defects using Quality Center/ALM Involved in backend testing for the front end of the application using SQL Queries in Teradata data base. Worked wif Data Conversion projects for testing data quality after migration. Used SQL for Querying the DB2 database in UNIX environment. Identify potential problems, omissions and open issues and attend walkthroughs and attend signoff meetings. Tested different master detail, summary reports, ad-hoc reports and on demand reports using Cognos Report Studio Wrote SQL scripts to perform database testing and to verify data integrity. Responsible for UAT project planning like creating testing scenario, test plans, and test scripts Handle the tasks of explaining UAT scope, criteria and entry/exit strategy to less trained professionals Responsible for drafting complex SQL queries and perform allocation testing from front end / user interface Written several complex SQL queries stored procedures for validating Cognos Reports Responsible for verifying the log files using UNIX and database for the submitted application. Environment: ETL Informatica, BI Cognos, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, TOAD, MS Excel, MS Access, MS Visual Studio, Tableau, HP ALM/Quality Center, SQL Server and UNIX. Confidential, Madison WI QA Tester Responsibilities: Worked exclusively wif BA and Developer as a team to make sure the demands of correct scripting and testing are satisfied. Written Test Scripts based on the Business requirements and executed Functional testing and data validation, data reconciliation wif defect correction and retesting, followed by regression and performance testing. Prepared test cases for data verification Compared SQL results wif application results by writing SQL queries. Test complex ETL mappings and sessions based on business user requirements and business rules to load data from source flat files and RDBMS tables to target tables. Strong ability in developing advanced and complex SQL queries to extract, manipulate, and/or calculate information to fulfill data and reporting requirements including identifying the tables and columns from which data is extracted Developed SQL queries to check the database automatically and checking the data integrity in ETL Flow of data from source to stage and target Database Worked wif several ETL sources including Flat Files, XML Files, CSV Files & SQL Server Retested and reproduced the logged defects to ensure dat the problem is solved. Participated daily stand up meeting wif UAT Team Lead, Walkthrough online meeting wif Product owner, BA, and Developer to make sure everybody in the same page of understanding. Handle the tasks of identifying defects and perform root cause analysis by analyzing data quality issues. Involved in checking of data integrity and constraints by using SQL Queries. Worked in Water Fall as well as AGILE Methodology and used Agile Test Methods to provide rapid feedback to the developers significantly halping them uncover important risks. Identify potential problems, omissions and open issues and attend walkthroughs and attend signoff meetings. Environment: Informatica Power Center 8.6, Cognos, Oracle, SQL, 2, TOAD, SQL Server, MS Excel, MS Project. Confidential, Minneapolis, MN ETL QA Tester Responsibilities: Tested the ETL process to automate the testing process and also load the test data into the testing tables. Wrote SQL scripts to perform database testing and to verify data integrity. Perform responsibilities of conducting research on IT requirements and business requirements in UAT areas Performed data analysis and data profiling using SQL and Informatica Data Explorer on various sources systems including Oracle and Teradata Performance monitoring and tuning of SQL Server queries. Handle the tasks of identifying defects and perform root cause analysis by analyzing data quality issues Involved in data warehouse testing by checking ETL procedures. Worked in AGILE Methodology and used Agile Test Methods to provide rapid feedback to the developers significantly halping them uncover important risks. Strong ability in developing advanced and complex SQL queries to extract, manipulate, and/or calculate information to fulfill data and reporting requirements including identifying the tables and columns from which data is extracted Involved in backend testing for the front end of the application using SQL Queries in Oracle data base. Worked wif Data Conversion projects for testing data quality after migration. Used SQL for Querying the Oracle database in UNIX environment. Identify potential problems, omissions and open issues and attend walkthroughs and attend signoff meetings. Provide recommendations on performance enhancements in pre-production and production environments. Validate the business functionality usingUATTesting Environment: Informatica 8.6.1/8.1, Oracle 10g, MS SQL Server, MS Excel, MS Access, MySQL 5.0, Windows, HP ALM Quality Center, T-SQL, SQL, TOAD, Flat Files, UNIX Shell Scripting Confidential, ST. Louis, MO ETL QA Tester Responsibilities: Involved in Business analysis and requirements gathering. Assisted in creating fact and dimension table implementation in Star Schema model based on requirements. Used Quality Centre for tracking the defects. Involved in backend testing for the front end of the application using SQL Queries in Oracle data base Extensively used Informatica power center for extraction, transformation and loading process. Responsible for assisting senior engineers in developing test estimation, scope and test plan for UAT Perform the tasks of designing and developing test procedures to meet business requirements Responsible for drafting complex SQL queries and perform allocation testing from front end / user interface Assigned the tasks of preparing test results as well as gather test results from other testers in standardized format Written several complex SQL queries for validating Cognos Reports Responsible for verifying the log files using UNIX and database for the submitted application. Coordinated and Interacted wif Development team and actively participated in status meetings during the defect life cycle, reported the bugs and maintained their status. Developed Test Strategy, Test plan, Test cases, and Test scripts and various other project documentation in HP Quality Center Extracted data from various sources like Oracle, flat files and DB2. Wrote and ran UNIX Scripts for batch jobs. Preparing and supporting the QA and UAT test environments. Tested different detail, summary reports and on demand reports. Communicated discrepancies determined in testing to impacted areas and monitored resolution. Environment: Informatica Power Center 7.2, SQL, TOAD, Oracle 9g, Cognos, HP Quality Center 10.0, MS Access, MS Excel, Unix. 