SUMMARY Over 7 years of progressive working experience in Software QA and testing with diverse projects, clients and industry. Experience in building Automation Frameworks inUFT/ QTP using record and run. Experience in both Manual and Automated testing. Proficiency in HP/Mercury tools (Quick Test Pro, Quality Center/ALM). Experienced in using bug - tracking tool such as JIRA. Performed planning and development of Test Plans, Test Cases and Test Scenario to meet product’s business requirements. Hands on experience in working with HP tools Unified Functional Testing (UFT), Quick Test Professional (QTP), Application Lifecycle Management (ALM), Quality Center (QC). Expert in retrieving database information writing SQL Queries in Oracle and transforming data to information as needed. Extensively worked on back end testing in mainframe as well as SQL, DB2. Analyzed test results to ensure existing functionality and recommend corrective action where necessary. Participated in UAT and wrote Test Cases for UAT. Hands on experience in working with SOAP UI creating various test data for teh entire Online Mortgage Application squad to halp all teh team in regression testing. Implemented Sanity Testing, Smoke Testing, White Box testing, Black Box Testing, GUI Testing, Functionality Testing, Positive and Negative Testing, Security Testing, Stress Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing, Volume Testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Regression Testing of Web Based Applications and Client-Server Applications. Good skills for problem solving and Bug Tracking using Mercury Quality Center. Thorough knowledge of teh SDLC (Agile, Traditional) models and methodologies. Worked in Agile environment from sprint planning discussing velocity for a user story to sprint retrospective discussing how could we get better. Expertise in translating user requirements into technical specifications and mapping teh process design, work flows for SDLC with documenting and managing business requirements. Maintained teh Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM), Test Matrix and also performed Gap Analysis. Analyzed Enhancement requests and Modification requests. Professional expertise in MS Office and MS Project. Possess excellent organizational, interpersonal, communication and documentation skills with good process management skills along with a remarkable ability to gather requirements to bring out quality product. Ability to successfully manage multiple deadlines and multiple projects effectively through a combination of business and technical skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems:  Windows 7/8/10 Testing Tools: HP ALM, QC, JIRA, MTM, UFT/QTP, and SOAP UI Reporting Tools: Rational Clear Quest, Quality Center Databases: Oracle, MS SQL Server, MS Access, DB2 (IBMMainframe) Web Technologies: HTML, XML, and COLBALT MS Office Tools: MS Office, MS Visio, MS project PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Des Moines, IA Quality Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Reported bugs usingJIRA, assure reports are easily reproducible and contains information. Designed and executed Test Plans and Test Cases and generated Test Scripts and Test scenarios. Worked with WARP automation tool to seed a loan in Confidential Core application. Worked closely with teh developer to seed a loan from DEV environment to submit in UAT environment. Coordinated User Acceptance Testing with teh UAT group to ensure teh correct business logic. Worked closely with end-users and developer to develop a detailed understanding of teh opportunities for improvement, then gathered requirements and prepared a comprehensive set of documents to define teh specifications and business value of teh system Analyzed production issues and worked with teh IT development team to determine root cause analysis, timeline of events and open HP Quality Central (HP ALM) tickets for releasing fixes in future maintenance releases. Analyzed teh Data flow and UML Diagrams. Experience in sanity, backend, front-end, functional, integration, regression, smoke, cross browser, cross platform and automation testing using QTP/UFT. Monitored teh Defect Tracking Process and generated customized graphs and reports for teh client using ALM. Analyzed operating procedures and policies on an ongoing basis and recommended and implemented improvement plans where appropriate. Understood core processes of teh departments to provide input on re-engineering or streamlining opportunities. Opened several high severity defects in HP ALM to track and managed teh defect lifecycle. Worked with teh development team to resolve all teh defects and updated teh results of re-testing of defects in HP ALM. Created various test data working in SOAP UI to work for entire squad in one of teh first agile environment for blend to halp in regression testing. Worked exclusively with XML doing MISMO retry to submit loan from DEV environment to UAT Analyzed business requirements and segregated them into high level and low level Use Cases, activity diagrams / State Chart Diagrams and Robustness Diagram using MS Visio according to UML methodology, thus defining teh Data Process Models. Prepared Test plans, Test Cases based on business requirements using Quality Center. Environment: JIRA, SOAP UI, WARP, UML, Oracle/Unix, SQL Developer, SQL PLUS, HP Quality Center/ALM. QA Analyst  Confidential, Pittsburg, PA Responsibilities: Conducted user interviews, gathered requirements, analyzed and documented business requirements based on teh analysis of loans and integration of credit processing workflow model. Reported bugs usingJIRA, assure reports are easily reproducible and contains information. Performed As-Is and Gap analysis to develop detailed current business process flow diagrams and use those as teh base to develop efficient To-Be business processes. Participated inQA/QC of teh Performance Review System (web andMainframe) Performed data profiling, data quality rules development and assessment using data quality and metadata tools. Extensively executed SQL on Data Base to download Data from DB2 (Mainframe) to Test environment in Data Bases (Oracle). Experience on Defect Reporting using Quality Center/Jiraand following it up until teh satisfactory resolution is obtained. Experience in sanity, backend, front-end, functional, integration, regression, smoke, cross browser, cross platform and automation testing using QTP/UFT. Created daily maintenance, set up of users, running of reports, report creation and training within theJira. Understood teh business logic, User Requirements and test-objectives to develop test plans, test cases based on teh requirements involving risk management, risk analysis, credit derivatives, value at risk, risk & return optimization, mortgage rules and procedures, workflow and documentation. Create test suites for functional and regression testing using HPUFT12.02. GeneratedUFTscripts with standard checkpoints, validation checkpoints and also Synchronization Points using teh record and run feature. Retrieval and Member refresh and copy script for Mainframe systems. Created scripts and Performed Data Driven and Keyword Driven Testing. Created and executed SQL queries using Rapid SQL and scripts to validate data movement and generate expected results for UAT. Developed Use-Cases and Requirements documents to document business needs. Captured detailed requirements to convert data contained with acquired databases as part of amerger/acquisitioneffort Gathered requirements through interactions and meetings and periodic walkthroughs with loan analysts, credit analysts and other potential users of teh application. Conducted Use-Case reviews and identified gaps, leading to improvements/enhancements in teh same. Coordinated and tracked all requirements and test cases using JIRA. Documented Functional Requirements and communication then across various project teams. Conducted brainstorming and JAD sessions with teh clients and other business groups to propose future business processes and documenting project shareholder's requirements. Responsible for executing various UAT test cases. Responsible for supporting Users to understand teh ALM Test Management Process during User Acceptance Testing (UAT) Performed Data Analysis and Data validation by writing SQL queries using TOAD Created Business Components in HP ALM for teh reusable scenarios in reports testing. Responsible for Business Process Management (BPM) for development of various projects. Created and maintained teh Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) between teh requirements and other products such as design documents and test plans. Performed requirement walk through with teh QA and off-shore development teams to transfer teh knowledge of teh business requirements. Environment: Jira, UFT. Windows, SQL, TOAD, Excel, JAD, HP ALM, UML, RTM, BPM, Oracle, Microsoft Office Suite, UNIX, and MS Access. QA Analyst Confidential, Houston, TX Responsibilities: Test cases preparationand Execution, Defect reporting. Responsible for creating and reviewing business requirements, functional specifications, project schedules, documentation and test plans. Designed teh business requirement collection approach based on teh project scope and SDLC Methodology Gathered requirements to conduct and schedule various tests. Interacted with developers for defect fixes. UsedJiraas defect tracking tool. Worked with Issues and Risks involved with teh project based on teh Scrum development method of Agile manifesto Involved in running many batch jobs in order to retrieve data from teh Mainframe Analyzed test cases and came up with manual and mainframe functional related test scenarios and scripts. Prepared and executed test scripts for Application build on SOA architecture and for Mainframe application Performed Sanity Testing & Smoke Testing. Designed Functional Libraries, Functions, and Subroutines, Common functions, Regular Expressions and Environmental variables in UFT. Responsible for writing and executing teh test cases for GUI, hardware and communication interfaces using HP ALM. Interface with other teams to gather detailed technical requirements and reconcile any scope changes also involved in coordination as well as execution of unit, system and integrated testing Create Test lab and map teh defects directly to teh requirements in teh HP ALM and run Reports. Maintain Traceability Matrix: Ensure dat all teh Test Cases are updated in teh HP ALM along with Master Test Plan. Validated teh scripts to make sure they has been executed correctly and meets teh scenario description. Participated in requirement analysis and prepared systems test documents. Created different manual and goal oriented scenario to sketch real time scenarios in production. Validated teh scripts to make sure they has been executed correctly and meets teh scenario description. Used Correlation to parameterize dynamically changing parameters like Message ID’s, Session ID’s. Analyzed various graphs generated: Monitors, Network Monitor graphs, User Graphs, Error Graphs, Transaction graphs and Web Server Resource Graphs. Validated teh integrity constraints on teh database by creating Procedures and Functions. Wrote and tracked teh defects using HP ALM and communicated with teh developers. Participated in meetings and walkthroughs and defect report meetings periodically. Prioritized, evaluated, monitored defects and Analyzed Defect History. Environment: Quality Center (ALM 11),Jira, UFT, TOAD, Mainframe, Microsoft Office, FileNet Windows. QA Analyst Confidential, Irvine, CA Responsibilities: Developed functional test plan based on business and functional requirements. Created Test Cases as per Business requirements. Involved in Functionality, GUI testing, Regression Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Positive Testing and Negative Testing on Application. Performed Sanity tests on production environment after deployment Analyze and document test results, including re-testing of all previous failures. Maintained Test Matrix for latest test results information. Worked closely with developers in reproducing bugs reported Participated in Walkthroughs and weekly status meetings Tested teh back end using SQL queries Logged teh errors and track them using Quality Center and coordinated efforts with teh development team to solve teh problems Conducted Back-End Testing and Regression Testing using various phases of teh application. Identified, analyzed and documented Defects, Error and Inconsistencies in teh application using Quality Center. Reported and kept track of Software bugs. Interacted with Programmers to identify and resolve technical issues. Ensure teh successful process of migrating software from teh test into teh production environment Tested teh Application on different Browsers like IE, Netscape and Mozilla. Environment: Quality Center/ALM, SQL, XML, Jira QA Analyst  Confidential, New York, NY Responsibilities: Performed Black Box Testing of teh application to better understand teh functionality of teh application. Prepared Test cases according to teh requirement. Involved in creating test strategies, status reports and test timelines dat clearly communicate to business owners teh history of UAT testing activities and results Created test plan and test cases for back end testing from teh business requirement. Created and executed SQL queries using Relational Database. Responsible for Black Box, functional testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), smoke testing, exploring testing and Regression testing on various releases of ecommerce website. Used HP Quality Center to execute teh test cases, track execution against teh plan during testing and manage defects from inception to resolution. Assisted teh business analysis team in preparing teh Functional Specifications document Prepared Test Plans and Test Cases based on teh business requirements Performed Functionality Testing of teh application manually Performed end to end testing manually. Involved in Back End testing using SQL Queries on Oracle Database Created SQL queries within UNIX environment to automate teh back end testing. Performed Security Testing by writing using Positive and Negative Testing approach to ensure appropriate user authentication Performed Regression Testing after teh defects has been fixed to ensure no further effect on other functionalities. Participated in Walkthroughs and Inspection meetings to review Environment: Windows, Oracle/UNIX, QC, IIS Server, Citrix 