SUMMARY Extensive wif above 9+ years of experience in Analyst and Quality Assurance experience in Manual/Automation /Functional Testing using QTP HP, Performance Center/Load Runner. Business Analyst experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): gathering requirements, analysis, coding, testing and implementation of projects. I am independent, motivated, sincere, committed, fast learner, detail - oriented team player wif excellent communication, analytical, leadership, interpersonal and problem solving skills. Highly proficient in performance testing using HP Load Runner, Performance Center, Apache J meter. Gathered requirements documents such as business requirements and design document and other related documents. Prepared Test Plan, Test Cases, Test scripts and Test data for the application as well as for the database verification based on the functional requirements and test specs. Test plan, Test scenarios and test case authoring and execution Experience wif in-depth noledge of business processes in Hospitality, Health, Insurance (P&C), and Non-profit industries. Proficient in Requirement Management, including gathering, analyzing, detailing and tracking requirements. Involved in developing and enhancing the Web (HTTP-HTML), Web services scripts using HP Load Runner Proven capability to handle Enterprise-level analysis challenges, including handling complex projects and creating “AS-IS” and “TO-BE” analysis for executive level clients. Experience in writing requirements and specification like Business Requirements Document (BRD), Use Case Realization Document, Functional Requirements Specifications (FRS), Systems Design Specification (SDS), Systems Requirements Specification (SRS), Data Dictionary, Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM), Defect Traceability Matrix (DTM), User Guides, and Release Notes. Experienced wif project team in Waterfall and Agile/Scrum environment. Identified the risk of the software & hardware dependence of the Product in risk management. Experienced in Documenting requirement using Unified Modeling Language (Use Case and Activity Diagrams) also building business Process Flow, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagram using tools such as Visio. Experience in Version Control, Change management and Workflows. Good experience working in agile development environment. Experience in developing Performance Test Plan, Test cases. Strong sense of urgency, ability to prioritize and communicate TEMPeffectively. Experienced wif use of SharePoint. Experience in designing and developing Test Plans & Test Cases, conducting User Acceptance Testing (UAT), Operational Acceptance Testing (OAT) and verifying performance, reliability. Excellent communication skills and adept at facilitating walkthrough and training sessions. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: Windows, IOS, DOS and UNIX Languages: C/C++, Java, SQL, UML, Visual Basic, XML Databases: RDBMS, MS Access, MS SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle10g, Oracle11i SDLC Methodologies: Agile, Rational Unified Process, Waterfall QualityStandards: CMMI, ISO 9001, HIPAA Testing Tools: Load Runner, HP ALM/Performance Center, Quality Center, JMeter RequisitePro, Rational Enterprise Suite, IBM DOORs, HP ALM, QTP/UFT PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential  Sr. Quality Analyst Responsibilities: Worked on Smoke test and Regression for different Projects, SDCERA, GMA, TCERA, Template for pension Products Termination of a member retirement death member, register a member, enrollment and beneficiary. Logging into application as admin for the approval process of the member designate, and approvals for retirement disbursement process for payroll and running a batch file. Creating a user in the CPAS navigator and run a script for the test data in the system. Coordinate all Scrum Ceremonies including Sprint Planning, Daily Standups, Sprint retrospectives, Sprint Demos, Story Grooming, and Release Planning Intensive under gone training wif the Team for pension noledge and the flow and process Working on the different release for the implementation project & logging the issues in internal system called as CQ. Empower the team to make system and process improvements captured in sprint retrospective meetings Remove obstacles for developers and testers Use key Scrum metrics (burn down, velocity) to halp deliver committed work Manage sprint backlog items and tasks Empower the team to make system and process improvements captured in sprint retrospective meetings Remove obstacles for developers and tester Assist in defining and deploying new product development processes and in facilitating the continuous improvement of existing processes Worked on the CQ assigned and assigned back to the CQ to the team member. Tested in the New CQ release and reported the issue using the CQ. Sets and runs TEMPeffective recurring status meetings wif the product, portfolio and delivery managers Provides a single point of contact for projects Manages the health of the team Works wif Product Owner to define project scope and objectives Works TEMPeffectively wif others to remove delivery team roadblocks Guides team through continual improvement process Worked in the weekend for the release and extended support in the project day to day task. Environment: SQL,ALM, Silk4J, Silk central, reporting tool internal CQ. Confidential Performance Quality Analyst Responsibilities: Worked on creating vuser scripts in Load runner for Amicus, ECM, Chordiant Projects Set up the run time setting in the controller machine and vuser according to Business requirement Used base24 wif electronic fund transfer (EFT) for payment from one bank account to another account. Co-coordinated wif Database, Application and Development team on call and executed the scripts for baseline, Soak, Endurance testing Created summary comparison and HTML report for Chordiant project, also created analysis reports of the script using the load runner analysis Designed template and applied the template, also updated the existing template wif new graphs in Load runner controller machine Created excel sheet macros for calculating the before, during and after time from the analysis report Coaching and mentoring other Scrum Masters on our program team. Partnering to ensure that our ways of working are consistent across teams Liaising between developers and project stakeholders; fostering quality communication between engineering disciplines Used Base24 for the visa, Master card payment process. Finding the info wif card info. Transaction information, card personal information. Executed scripts, abrupt failover and graceful shutdown for the failover test. Executed the scripts for the 100%, 150% Baseline scripts and 200% Endurance Calculated the Peak hour first and last and updating the scripts wif scenario elapsed time and adjust the granularity and adding the merge graphs Verify the card payment information in the database. Analysis the CPU throughput, Hits per seconds, calculating the Percentage of the failed transaction Analysis the whole site scope graph for the database server Unix 672, 673 Application servers. Updated the analysis report wif unbalance, spick high rise in the peak time graphs Migrated the scripts from load runner .2 version Maintained the status page reports wif different version for the scripts in load runner, analyses reports Environment: LoadRunner11.2,12.02,Base24,Tandem, PerformanceCenter 12.0,Quality center 9.2. Confidential, Cary, NC Performance Quality Analyst Responsibilities: Worked on (Virtual ATM Testing)Simulator of Bridge test tool wif Regression Test Manager and quick test Created scripts for single/multiple cash, check deposits and executed them depending on ATM types like NCR Machine, Diebold Machine or Bulk. Scripts can validate English / Spanish screens Checked the receipts and EJVS in the base24 system. Developed to track data in 3270 terminal emulator and updated the card information in the script Balance enquiry and statement using EJVS. Card holder Account file (CAF) Primary account number (PAN) ATM /POS, Expiration date, Bad pin trace. Documented simulator issues for better performance and reported the risk in the tabular form for further analysis for risk management. Performed Baseline test wif 20 machines for better performance Analyzed the results for timeliness to execute the scripts and reported in Quality center Used a telephone key pad to enter Personal Identification Number (PIN) and other transaction information using interactive voice response. Tlfs and ejvs receipts in Tandem server. Worked on FAST HOST wif no receipt. Created parameter rules for test cases Masked the image and fixed the script for screen change, coordinate change and font change Worked wif the Physical ATM machine to test from the user end. Worked on the functional Regression test case executed Regression test suite mapping the traceable matrix Analyzed issues in the Load Runner actual summary report graphs as the graphs are missing and also while creating a new template some of the information is missing on summary page Coordinated wif manual testing team for the issue on the simulator and wif ATM Machine Designed execution plan to run the script on simulator machine Performed the signoff for the build deliverable wif open issues and closed issues Environment: base24, Fast, Boss, Tandem, 3270 Terminal Emulator, Load Runner9.25, RTM, Quick Test, DB2, Simulator Bridge Test tool, QC,QTP 11.0, Test Manager visual Studio. Confidential, Columbia, SC Quality Analyst Responsibilities: Analyzed Change Request CR and updated CR in the Quality Center requirement tab Researched CRs and developed test cases in excel sheet and upload into the QC wif requirement. Mapped the requirements wif test cases for different releases Attended meeting for CR and updated the status of CRs wif CMS and FISS maintainer on weekly basis Worked on inpatient Outpatient Part A for ICD10. Worked on Immigration from ICD9 to ICD10. Directly report the team status to the Project Manager. Testing the application in UAT phase. Understanding the functional Requirement document and writing the test case Executed the test case and updated the result in QC Loaded the BCTRANS file in the TSO system Segregated rejected claim and accepted claims for further analyses Coordinated wif other BAs for different CRs Environment: IBM Tool hamming bird Session CICS, QC 10.0, FISS system. Confidential, Princeton, NJ Performance Quality Analyst Responsibilities: Studied process flow of the batch processing in claim’s cycles run on EMC and FISS system and prepared flow chart using Microsoft Visio 2010 Worked in the IBM Mainframe Green screen sessions i.e. CICSS sessions Experienced in EMC Proc32 system for keying the claim wif different bills types and different Revenue codes Worked in automating the test cases using Business Process Testing BPT in QTP Entered different Reason code to edit the claim depending on the CR from CMS and FISS maintainer and worked in the STC FISS Module for keying the claims Analyzed Change Request CR and updated CR in the Quality Center requirement tab Researched CRs and developed test cases in excel sheet and upload into the QC wif requirement. Mapped the requirements wif test cases for different releases Attended meeting for CR and updated the status of CRs wif CMS and FISS maintainer on weekly basis Set up the run time setting in the controller machine and vuser according to Business requirement and running the scripts Institutional, Professional Claims. Testing the application in UAT phase. Worked on CICS screen for the transaction keys. CAF Card holder Account file in Base24. Understanding the functional Requirement document and writing the test case Executed the test case and updated the result in QC Loaded the BCTRANS file in the TSO system Segregated rejected claim and accepted claims for further analyses Coordinated wif other BAs for different CRs Environment: IBM Tool hamming bird Session,ICD10,Base24, CICS, TSO/ISPF,QC 10.0, Load runner 9.2 FISS system, EMC PCACE pro32 3.2 version. Confidential Columbia, SC Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Scripted AMMS and ITS Transactions using QTP 10.0 Worked on different AMMS Transactions like AMLK, AMMR, DNFE, RMIK and IT’S transactions like IUCA, SELG, ITPR, ITCB etc Scripted Claim Entry Macro for Dental claims, Professional claims, Institutional Inpatient and Institutional outpatient claims Developed and maintained scripts for AMMS Transaction for different Regions like QCCICSJ, DCUT1. DVAST1 around 30 Maintained Scripts for ITS Transaction for different Regions like QCCICSJ, DVUT1 Scripted the Membership Macro Transaction for Desert RPN, Michigan RPN, South Carolina RPN TSO /ISPF for the user data enter screen. Created Functions in Function Library and calling the Function in the test and ran the Scripts from Quality Center Run the CSR Desktop Script and Found Freezing issue in IBM Session Scripted the Benefit Co-ordinate Application which is web based application (Dental Summary, Benefits and Eligibility, Site Map, Tools and Resources, other Dental insurance) Environment: Zlinux10, QTP10.0, QC 10.0, ICD9,ICD10,Base24, Tandem, IBM Tool Hummingbird Session CICS, Terminal Emulator 3270 add-in. Confidential, Newark, DE Business / Quality Analyst Responsibilities: Understood the flow diagrams and developed test cases for CR Executed test scripts and saved results in QC Worked on CR Retail for corporate Base, Over corporate Base and developed, maintained tested plans Tested the Pricing Inquiry in Global Pricing Integration Application Created test case Base Price, Special Price, Promotion Price on Updated CR and constructed test data in Excel for system testing Executed test case CR on QC for Universal Product Code, Distribution Center DC, Stores Reported status of the Test case execution percentage as daily status report Attended review meetings to discuss Use-Cases, Business Rules, and Analysts in reviewing State Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams Attended the team meeting and CR meeting wif the client Environment: SQL Server Developer, UNIX,.NET, Windows 2000, XML, Mercury QC. Confidential, Hendon, VA Quality Analyst/Performance systems Analyst Responsibilities: Automated Regression test Cases using QTP using WShell Scripts Executed QTP scripts in load runner and checked output files in Unix server Extracted data from data base and matched wif data presented in the Unix server using automation Script GUI Spy and repository to recognize the object. Worked on RTP claim and line level and claim level. Conducted Integration, System, Functional, GUI, Regression, Smoke and Database Integrity testing Created the excel sheet for the comparison report wif previous release for the baseline, Soak Endurance, Failover test Coordinated wif offshore team for testing, development and status update Participated and worked for VODA Phone, IVR interactive Voice Response file transfer from Syniverse to OCHS, Migrated customer’s, SE Customer’s, North America and European Customer’s Environment: UNIX, QC, QTP 10.0, SQL Server, Load runner 9.2, Load runner Monitor & Analyzer. Confidential Systems Engineer Responsibilities: Responsible for testing medical imaging applications, complex electronic medical records, and rapid prototyping, Medical device Tested incoming ORM Message and ADT patient Demographic Window, Transcripts and Doctors login Performed testing in the production environment followed the principal of Agile Methodology Logged to server side application and placed files by creating a directory in UNIX operating system Performed integration testing and system testing Wrote test cases and executed cases and scenarios Interacted wif developers for issues in the test case Attended meetings wif client for enhancement of change Request and status update Environment: JDK 1.5 java Swing Application, HL7 engine, SQL Server 2000, QTP 9.0, QC 