SUMMARY Around 6 years of professional experience in Software Industry, Expertise in all kinds of testing (Manual and Automation) with focus on Business Intelligence, ETL, Data warehouse, Data Mart, Databases, Web services, Client - Server applications Extensive knowledge on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Experience in Agile, Scrum and Waterfall models of SDLC. Extensive experience in Software Testing Life Cycle(STLC) and Defect Life Cycle (DLC). Participate in complete testing Lifecycle, Test Plan, Test Cases, Test Execution, & Defect Report. Worked with Business analysts to understand the business and involved in walkthroughs, and periodical meetings to come up with project plans. Extensive use of defect tracking tools like Quality Center(HPALM) and JIRA. Wrote complex SQL queries and very good understanding of PL/SQL codes to validate Data Mart and Data Warehouse Backend Testing In-depth knowledge of all QA Phases that include Manual, Functional, System, Integration, Regression Testing and End-to-End testing Experienced in Integrating and coordinating testing activities into software development activities Strong knowledge of working with Data Marts (Star Schema and Snowflake Schema) including Slowly Changing Dimensions. Proficient in designing, reviewing and documenting system test plans, defining test procedures and creating test cases on the basis of product release features, client’s requirements and related technical documents. Tested the reports generated by SSRS and verified and validated the reports using SQL. Worked with different RDBMS Oracle, SQL Server, Teradata and their GUI utilities like Toad, Oracle SQL developer, SQL Server Mgmt Studio, Teradata SQL Assistant to do transaction of data Ability to apply engineering approaches to solve problems and ability to utilize research methods, problem solving and resolution skills. Expertise in understanding Business Requirements, Functional Requirements, decomposing into HLD’s and ETL Specifications into Test Cases for positions and negative test conditions. Familiar with executing Automated Test Scripts using Selenium automated various Business Flows for the application. Worked on Autosys and Control -M for Batch Processing ETL, SQL subprograms and performed backend testing. Experienced in programming Database Objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Rules, Defaults, user defined data types and functions using Oracle, SQL Server. Working knowledge on various types of data feeds like: XML, Oracle and Flat files. Excellent in writing SQL queries and UNIX shell scripts to perform Backend testing Experienced in executing UNIX commands and monitoring batch jobs. Strong working experience in the Data Centric Testing, Data Analysis, Design and Development Supporting multiple projects, while maintaining strong quality and ability to meet deadlines Excellent analytical skills, documentation skills and presentation skills Ability to work independently, multitask and focus on critical path deliverables which are essential skills for the position. Self-starter and ability to present ideas in a concise, logical and well organized format TECHNICAL SKILLS Bug Reporting Tools:  HPALM 11.5, JIRA, TFS Testing/Automation Tools:  Selenium Databases:  Oracle SQL, MS Sql Server, Teradata ETL tools:  Informatica, SSIS Utilities:  Oracle Sql Developer, Toad, Teradata SQL Assistant, Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, Control-M Operating System:  Windows XP/Vista, Windows 95/98, UNIX Web Technologies:  HTML, XML, Java Script, UNIX Shell scripting PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Nashville, TN ETL Tester Responsibilities: Involved in extensive DATA validation using SQL queries Involved in data warehouse testing by checking ETL procedures/mappings. Performed all aspects of verification, validation including functional, structural, full load, incremental load and system testing Responsible for validation of Target data in Data Warehouse and Data Marts which are Transformed and Loaded using SSIS ETL Tool/Informatica. Validated the target table column definition with source column definition Developed and Performed execution of Test Scripts manually to verify the expected results. Validated that design meets requirements and function according to technical and functional specifications. Validating the Extracted Data from SQL Server using Informatica and SSIS ETL to the target database Teradata Good Back End Testing experience by writing and executing SQL Queries. Presented QA team work update/Status to Project/Program Manager in status meeting and also worked with business team to get approval on test plan/test cases. Developed Test Scripts and executed them manually to verify the expected results and published the same to wider audience upon successful completion along with QA signoff. Participated in all QA review meetings. Documented and reported various bugs during Manual Testing. Written SQL Queries to define, Identify and validate the code written for the data movement into the database tables. Retesting the resolved defects/issues after the developers fix the defects Working in Agile methodology Confidential, Dallas, Texas QA (Backend and Functional Tester) Responsibilities: Developed functional specification documents based upon business requirements documents and provide it to the development team. Worked in Mortgage Banking Treasury Reporting (MHA Program) Prepared test plans and test cases for the database backend testing and to test functionality. Designed and executed various Test scripts for Regression tests Assisted in gathering the business requirements, ETL Analysis, ETL test and design of the flow and the logic for the Data warehouse project Developed ETL test cases for various lines of businesses based on ETL mapping document. Backend testing of the DB by writing SQL queries to test the integrity of the application and Oracle databases. Expertise in writing SQL Statements in database to make sure whether the data is populated in Data Mart/Data warehouse According to Business Rules. Responsible for validation of Target data in Data Warehouse and Data Marts which are Transformed and Loaded Involved in investigating the errors by tracking the root cause for the error. Collected evidence for each step of the process to ensure that any errors are captured in time and resolved immediately. Written Complex SQL Queries to validate the database systems and for backend database testing. Raised defects in JIRA defect tracking system. Good experience in writing SQL in order to data validation in migration as part of backend testing worked with ETL group for understating mappings for dimensions and facts. Developed Test Scripts and executed them manually to verify the expected results and published the same to wider audience upon successful completion along with QA signoff. Solid Back End Testing experience by writing and executing SQL Queries. Documented and reported various bugs during Manual Testing. Contributed overall testing efforts for performing sanity, functional, back end and regression testing. Written SQL Queries to define, Identify and validate the code written for the data movement into the database tables. Retesting the resolved defects/issues after the developers fix the defects Worked in Agile Scrum methodology Confidential, Oldsmar, Florida ETL/QA Tester Responsibilities: Documented the business requirements, developed test plans, test cases created for the database backend testing and to test database functionality. Designed and executed various Test scripts for Regression tests Assisted in gathering the business requirements, ETL Analysis, ETL test and design of the flow and the logic for the Data warehouse project Developed ETL test cases for various lines of businesses based on ETL mapping document. Backend testing of the DB by writing SQL scripts to test the integrity of the application and Oracle databases. Expertise in writing SQL Statements in database to make sure whether the data is populated in Data Mart/Data warehouse According to Business Rules. Responsible for validation of Target data in Data Warehouse and Data Marts which are Transformed and Loaded using SSIS ETL Tool and Internal ETL Tool. Provided support to offshore QA team by giving them knowledge transfer and helping them with closure of the defects Involved in investigating the errors by tracking the root cause for the error. Collected evidence for each step of the process to ensure that any errors are captured in time and resolved immediately. Written Complex SQL Queries and PL/SQL scripts to validate the database systems and for backend database testing. Raised defects in HP ALM Quality Center defect tracking system. Designed Traceability Matrix to match the test scripts with the Functional design document. Good experience in writing SQL in order to data validation in migration as part of backend testing worked with ETL group for understating mappings for dimensions and facts. Prepared Test Artifacts( Test Plan, Test case, Test matrix, RTM). Worked on issues with migration from development to testing. Involved in multiple projects and participated in meetings with SME and Business Analysts. Tested the entire compliance reports generated using SSRS BI tool by validating the data in the report against the database according to the requirement specifications using SQL Confidential, Duluth, GA ETL /QA Tester Responsibilities: Designed & Created Test Cases based on the Business requirements (Also referred Source to Target Detailed mapping document & Transformation rules document). Involved in extensive DATA validation using SQL queries and back-end testing Used SQL for Querying the database in UNIX environment Involved in data warehouse testing by checking ETL procedures/mappings. Performed all aspects of verification, validation including functional, structural, regression, load and system testing Responsible for validation of Target data in Data Warehouse and Data Marts which are Transformed and Loaded using SSIS ETL Tool/Informatica. Validated the target table column definition with source column definition (including type and length) Experience in data analysis and data testing and verified fields present in the reports are as agreed in the ETL specifications Involved with Design and Development team to implement the requirements. Developed and Performed execution of Test Scripts manually to verify the expected results. Validated that design meets requirements and function according to technical and functional specifications. Extracted Data from Teradata using Informatica and SSIS ETL to the target database including SQL Server and used the data for Reporting purposes. Heavily involved in performance testing and worked with analyzing tables, gathering statistics, tuning of SQL queries used to fetch source data. Good Back End Testing experience by writing and executing SQL Queries. Presented QA team work update/Status to Project/Program Manager in status meeting and also worked with business team to get approval on test plan/test cases. Developed Test Scripts and executed them manually to verify the expected results and published the same to wider audience upon successful completion along with QA signoff. Tested several Informatica ETL jobs and ran on UNIX for loading purpose and checking the log files Used HP Quality Center to state requirements, business components, test cases, test runs for every iteration, defects. Also link defects with requirements. Participated in all QA review meetings. Documented and reported various bugs during Manual Testing. Written SQL Queries to define, Identify and validate the code written for the data movement into the database tables. Retesting the resolved defects/issues after the developers fix the defects Validated cube and query data from the reporting system back to the source system. Involved in preparing test data for UAT and participated in UAT signoff Confidential, Orange County, CA QA Tester Responsibilities: Documented the business requirements, developed test plans, test cases created for the database backend testing and to test database functionality. Designed and executed various Test scripts for Regression tests Developed test cases based on functional specifications and design documents. Analyzed and maintained Requirement Traceability matrix (RTM) between Requirements and Test Cases. Expertise in writing SQL Statements in database to make sure whether the data is populated in Data Mart/Data warehouse According to Business Rules. Used Agile Test Methods to provide rapid feedback to the developers significantly helping them uncover important risks. Prepared and Execution of test scripts using Selenium using TestNG Performed functional, compatibility testing on different browsers like Firefox, IE & Chrome Experience in working with Selenium Web Driver Experience in writing CSS Selectors, Xpath expressions to identify web elements. Responsible for validation of Target data in Data Warehouse and Data Marts which are Transformed and Loaded using ETL Informatica Power center. Involved in investigating the errors by tracking the root cause for the error. Collected evidence for each step of the process to ensure that any errors are captured in time and resolved immediately. Used Quality Center to maintain Test Case and Reports Repository. Tested Micro strategy reports for Report layout, Attributes/Metrics, positions, Totals & Grand Totals, Drilling options, Metric Calculations, Drill Maps, and Security filters Raised defects in HP Quality Center defect tracking system. Good experience in writing SQL in order to data validation in migration as part of backend testing worked with ETL group for understating mappings for dimensions and facts. Worked in an agile technology. Experience working on different ETL tools worked with tools like Informatica and Talend. Confidential, Madison, WI QA Tester Responsibilities: Responsible for validation of Target data in Data Warehouse and Data Marts which are Transformed and Loaded using Informatica Power Center. Created test cases and test plans for user acceptance testing and system testing based on functional specifications. Tested all the ETL processes developed for fetching data from OLTP systems to the target Market Data warehouse using complex SQL queries. Tested SQL procedures that were developed to load the data from temporary tables in staging to target tables in the data warehouse. Performed data validation on the flat files that were generated in UNIX environment using UNIX commands as necessary. Designed and supported SQL Reporting services, Integration services and Analysis services Worked in an agile technology with Scrum. Developed Test Scripts and executed them manually to verify the expected results. Tested the XMLs feeds received from another source which is a third party for data consistency. Tested the ETL with XML as source and tables in the data warehouse as target. Created Data warehouse ETL test data for all ETL mapping rules to test the functionality. Wrote SQL scripts to validate the database systems and for backend database testing on UNIX and Windows platforms. Wrote SQL scripts using TOAD and Oracle SQL Developer to query DBs and analyzed the results. Tracked defects to closure by coordinating with the dev team. Tested source data for data completeness, data correctness and data integrity. Performed End to end testing starting from the source to the report. Conducted and coordinated integration testing and regression testing. Prioritized and reported defects using Quality Center to present documents and reports in weekly team meetings. Participated in business requirements gathering and in modifications of the requirements based on the scope. Worked with the DSO team to understand the source to target mapping document and accordingly helped them to clean the source data to decrease the defects and to ensure that final data matches with the data warehouse standards. Managed and executed the test process, using Agile Methodology Worked with Data warehouse ETL group for understating mappings for dimensions and facts. Prepared test data to cover all the test scenarios. Maintained all the test cases in HP Quality Center and logged all the defects into the defects module