SUMMARY QA Engineer with 5+ years of experience with good understanding of all phases of SDLC, STLC by adopting Agile, Waterfall and V - model methodologies. Good experience in Defect Life Cycle Management tools like, HP Quality Center (QC), JIRA, and BugZilla. Experienced in SQA (Software Quality Assurance) including Manual and Automated testing with tools such as Selenium RC/WebDriver/IDE/Grid, HP QTP and Junit/TestNG, Ant/Maven, Jenkins/Hudson, Cucumber/JBehave, Quality Center, JMeter, JIRA, SOAP UI and Version One. Expertise in Analyzing, Designing and Implementation of QA testing strategy for Web based and Client/Server applications using Manual and Automation testing. Experience in using Java as client library for Selenium WebDriver to design and developed Automation Test Framework using Junit and TestNG. Proficient in various test management and defect tracking tools such as HP QC, JIRA, ALM, Bugzilla. Experienced in using Jenkins as a Continuous Integration server to configure with Maven. Proficient in Functional testing, User Acceptance Testing, Integration testing, System testing, Load testing, Sanity testing, Exception testing, White/Black-box testing. Experienced in testing using Postman, SOAP UI. Used Junit, TestNG framework for Unit testing, Maven for project building tool, Jenkins/Hudson for Continuous Integration. Experience in testing both SOAP and REST services using SOAP UI, and Tested both XML and JSON formats. Experience in Version Control Systems: GIT and SVN. Exposure in running SQL queries to manipulate database tables to check data integrity. Expertise in backend testing of database applications and writing SQL queries, Joins, and Procedures in Oracle. Used Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) for mapping requirements to test cases. Expertise in understanding and analyzing test requirements, tracking changes and maintenance of test requirements and involved in Test Plan and Test Strategy implementation. Expert in analyzing test results and preparing test/defect summary report for Management. Excellent communication and analytical skills and the ability to clearly articulate issues with the appropriate level of detail. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing Tools: Selenium RC/IDE/GRID/WebDriver, QTP, HP QC, ALM, TestNG, SOAP UI, Cucumber, JBehave, Junit, JMeter Languages: C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, Java, Java Script, HTML, XML, CSS, Perl, Shell Database: SQL Server, MS Access, Oracle, MY SQL Methodologies: Agile (Scrum), Waterfall, V Model Frameworks: Junit, TestNG IDE: Eclipse Continues integration tools: Jenkins, Hudson, Cruise Control Build Tools: ANT, Maven Version Control Tools: GIT, Subversion (SVN) Defect Management Tools: ALM, Quality Center & Bugzilla Operating system: Windows Variants, Unix/Linux, Mac OS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Tampa, FL QA Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Analyzed the Business Requirements Document (BRD),developed Test cases and Test scripts for the application under test. Actively participated and Interacted with product management teams in the review and analysis of functional requirements. Involved in testing various business rules User/Customer Functionality, Change Process, Configuration Data Requirements, Legacy Data Requirements, and Access Permissions Requirements. Indepth understanding ofObject Oriented Programming and skilled in developing automated test scripts inSelenium. Created automation framework and test scripts using Selenium Web-Driverfor multiple platforms and browsers testing. Design, develop and implement Page Object Model Pattern based Keyword Driven automation testing framework utilizingJava, Test-NG andSeleniumWeb-Driver. Developed automation test cases, executed these test scripts and logged defects inJIRA/ALM. Used SVN Subclipserepository for efficient remote team working, also stored the framework and all the developed test cases. Configured Selenium Web Driver, Test-NG, Maven tool and created Selenium automation scripts in java using Test-NG prior to next quarter release. Reviewed database test cases according to assigned Requirements to validate reports by retrieving data with complexSQL queries from SQL Server. Designed data-driven testing framework in Seleniumand captured data dynamically from web controls. Used automated scripts and performed functionality testing during the various phases of the application development usingSelenium. Performed functional testing to identify various critical points in the application and automated it by using SeleniumWeb-Driver with Test-NG. Used Firebug/ IE Developer Toolkit andSeleniumIDE to capture and validate CSS Locators, html ids to identify elements. Performed Integration and Regression testing to check compatibility of new functionality with the existing functionalities of the application usingSelenium. Demonstrated ability to solve complex automation challenges involving Ajax, dynamic objects, custom object types, unexpected event handling. Tested compatibility of application for dynamic and static content under various cross browsers usingHTML IDs and Xpath in Selenium. Performed functional testing ofSOAP and RESTFULL Web Services using SOAP UITool. Involved in testingWeb services and XMLwith tool called SOAP UIand using this tool to locateWSDL fileon internet, create Test cases and run them Involved in scope creation, script creation, configuration, execution, analysis, resolution, retesting in order to performance testingusing JMeter. Designed scenarios in JMeterto perform Load and Stress tests and to analyze results. Involved in regression testing using QTPtool prior converting QTP scripts to Selenium web-driver Attended weekly status meetings with development and management Teams. Reported defects to developer and discussed about the issues in weekly status meetings. Prepared user documentation with screenshots forUAT (User Acceptance testing). Environment: SeleniumWeb driver/IDE, Eclipse, JMeter, Jira, Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, X-path, Windows, SQL Server, ALM, Quality Center, Test-NG, SVN, SOAP UI, QTP, Windows. Confidential, Cary, NC Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Reviewed Business requirements, IT Design documents and prepared Test Plans for all assigned project releases. Developed test suite using Selenium and cucumber frameworks and scheduled the test runs from CI Servers. Created scripts using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, GRID and setup with Jenkins to run after deployment is done. Exported Test Case Scripts (Java-Selenium RC) in Eclipse IDE and modified the selenium scripts and executed. Prepared automation test framework. Contributed to the Continuous Integration pipeline running component builds, creating and running Deployment jobs on individual stages on Jenkins, and running automated and manual functional tests. Performed regression tests using the QTP scripts and enhanced the QTP scripts using parameterization and synchronization concepts. Performed Black Box and Unit testing using Equivalence Partitioning analysis. Implemented feature files using Java to get elements and submit various CSW web pages. Successfully Completed User Acceptance Testing (UAT) on each release of the project with the help of end user requirements. Involved in testing of GUI by inserting checkpoints in Quick Test Pro scripts for single or multiple objects and text. Conducted System Testing and User Acceptance Testing for every client and Conducted Backend testing writing extensive SQL queries. Developed and executed white box test cases using TestNG framework and Eclipse. Configured JIRA integration to create JIRA bugs automatically when the acceptance test suite fails before code promotion. Involved in using Jenkins as a Continuous Integration server to configure with Maven. Wrote test cases, implemented ran and added versions and iterations using Test Manager for positive, negative and END-TO-END Test cases. Added test cases to validate all features across multiple browsers and configured to run the test simultaneously using Selenium Grid. Environment: Selenium Web Driver / Grid, Java, Eclipse, Cucumber, TestNG, Maven, Junit, Jenkins, QTP, Jira, SQL, UNIX, Windows. Confidential Software Test Engineer Responsibilities: Participated in all phases of the Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC). Analyzed System Requirement Specification (SRS) document and Business Requirement Document. Performed agile testing, review the stories and participated in Daily Scrum, Iteration Planning and Release Planning meeting. Involved in the design and development of test plan and functional requirements which includes test objectives, test strategies, test environments etc. Used Rational Rose for the documentation and design phase of the application. Designed numerous complex components using Rational Rose and UML. Analysing the test reports generated by UFT test scripts. Present test results to developers and management on monthly basis. Wrote manual test cases for smoke, functional, GUI and regression testing and uploaded to Quality Center. Participated in peer review with team and developers to review test cases/test scripts. Performed System, Integration, Smoke, Sanity, Functional, End to End, Positive and Negative and monitored the behaviour of the applications during different phases of testing using testing methodologies. Regression testing was performed after each build release of the application and updated the Scripts by executing the Regression suites built using Selenium and approve for regression suit. Extensively used Quality Center for test planning and defect reporting, tracking and executing manual test cases. Created Selenium Test cases for automation using Selenium Web Driver and Java. Used Hybrid Framework of Selenium to get data from Excel. Build a detailed, reusable, Script - free Keyword + Data - Driven framework for over 45% Test cases using Selenium WebDriver + TestNG. Parallel, Cross - Browser Testing using Selenium Grid and TestNG. Performed back end testing by writing and executing SQL queries to validate that data is being populated in appropriate tables and manually verify the correctness of the data with front-end values. Identified, analysed and reported bugs found during various phases of testing. Discussed defect resolutions with developers and business analysts. Interacted with users by conducting User Acceptance Testing (UAT) to ensure that the total functionality of the application was met by complying with all the business requirements. Strong ability in developing advanced SQL queries to extract, manipulate, and/or calculate information to fulfil data and reporting requirements including identifying the tables and columns from which data is extracted. Actively communicated with the end users and business users to create realistic test cases. Provide test summary documentation and analyse test results, identifying trends and/or root causes of problems. Developed training materials, system maintenance and operating manuals for the QA environment and used the same to train the users Establish business continuity through Knowledge Transfer and mentoring of new resources. Participated in weekly QA status and project status meetings to report any defects and issues encountered in application. Discussed with team lead and PM regarding testing deadlines and post deployment validation. Environment: Java, Selenium IDE/WebDriver, SOAP, Web Services, SOAP UI, Test NG, HP Quality Center, Agile, Rational Rose, PL/SQL, My Eclipse, Oracle, Windows. 