SUMMARY 8+ years of Experience as a QA/Automation Test Engineer using Manual & Automation Testing of web, Mobile apps and client/server with specializing in software Assurance Testing and QA Automation Engineer. Strong understanding of SDLC, and QA methodologies which enabled me to understand the applications under test as well as document test plans develop test cases and test reports. Worked in multiple domains like Finance, Consumer, Health Care, Insurance and Telecom Domains. Experience in Full life cycle system development involving analysis, design development, testing, documentation, implementation maintenance of application software. Strong knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as well as Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and the Role of QA in different testing methodologies like Agile, and Waterfall etc. Developed and executed Test Plan, Test Cases, and Test scripts for various Applications. Automation experience using Selenium IDE/RC/ Web Driver and TestNG frameworks. Experience in validating Regular and Ajax control using Selenium locators (Xpath, CSS, id and name). Experienced in reading the test data from XL spread sheets using JXL API and TEST NG Data provider. Working experience Xpath, Firebug, Fire path, Log4j, Maven and TEST NG annotations. Hands on Experience on testing web services (SOAP, REST) using SOAP UI Tools. Experience in working with Oracle, DB2, My SQL and MS - Access Databases. Expertise in using Tools HP Quality Center, Rational Clear Quest, Bugzilla, Rally and JIRA. Experience in Continuous integration tools like Maven, Jenkins and Rally Tools. Experience in testing Web Based, Client Server Applications. Experience in Mobile application testing in agile environment. Good exposure in using QTP/UFT integrated environment. Expertise in performing Black Box Testing, functional testing, Usability Testing, System Testing, Regression Testing, System Integrating Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Good Exposure to writing Cucumber feature files and Ruby scripting using Ruby mine IDE under Watir framework. Extensively worked with all phases of testing deliverables including creation of Test Strategy, Test plans, RTM, Test case specifications, Test execution, Defect tracking, Resolution, Documenting and Reporting. Experience with UAT testing along with data setup, Environment setup and coordinate Between users, Development, Business Analyst and Product Management teams. Expert in preparing Traceability Matrix to map requirement coverage with test cases. Excellent experience with source version control tools such as Subversion (SVN) & Git. Proficient in different software development methodologies like Agile Methodology, Waterfall model and Iterative model. Exposure in programming languages and script like Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Shell Script and Ruby. Quick learner of new software tools, self-starter, can work independently and in a team. Strong understanding of deployment process from QA, Staging, UAT to PROD Environment. Understanding of web application communications and structure including HTTP, client/server interactions, and data access models. Proficient in using PL/SQL for developing complex stored procedures, Triggers, Tables, Views, User-Defined Functions, SQL joins, Index and query /writing. Experience in DOM (Document Object Model) as I used it in interacting with objects in HTML, XHTML and XML documents. Good Communication, interpersonal, and Teamwork skills. Excellent Organization, Analytical and Problem-Solving skills and ability to quickly learn new technologies. Demonstrated initiative, innovation, flexibility, and ability to manage workload, achieving desired results with minimal supervision. Good Communication and Interpersonal skills. Technically sound, Result-Oriented with strong Problem-solving skills. Innovative efficient. Capable of working as a Team Member or Individually with minimum supervision. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing Tools:  Selenium WebDriver/IDE/GRID/RC, HPQualityCenter/ALM, Junit, TestNG, JIRA, SOAPUI, QTP, Eclipse, Appium, JMeter, Cucumber, Log4j, Firebug, Fire Path. Language/ Script:  C, C++, C#, Java, JavaScript, Shell Script, VBScript(UFT), SQL, PL/SQL, VBScript(UFT), .NET Frameworks:  Junit, TestNG, TDD, BDD Firefox Add-ons:  XPath, Firebug, Fire path Web Technologies:  HTML, CSS, XML, XSD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, AJAX, JSP, CSS, Flash. SOA Technologies:  SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI, Web Services, SOAP UI Bug Tracking Tools:  HP Quality Center, Bugzilla, Visual Studio TFS, JIRA Mobile OS:  IOS, Android, Windows Mobile, Blackberry Build/CI Tools:  Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Hudson Version Control Tools:  Visual Source Safe, Subversion, Perforce Databases Technologies:  MS SQL Server 2000/2005, Oracle 9i/10g, MS Access 2000, Oracle PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, TOAD, SQL*Loader, MYSQL Operating Systems:  Windows XP, 7, 8, 10/vista & server 2003, UNIX and Mac. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Sr. Test Engineer /Mobile APP Tester Responsibilities: Developed and Executed Automation and Manual test cases for Functional testing of various modules of the application. Responsible in executing Selenium test scripts on different browsers and checked for compatibility. Effectively participated in every day agile scrum stand-up meetings and participated in Iteration planning and Retrospective meetings. Executed Automation Testing for Java/J2EE applications using Selenium IDE & Selenium RC. Created and executed test cases for mobile app testing and actively participated in testing release checklists in Test flight version of APP. Mobile APP Verification using physical IOS and Android Devices along with emulators and simulators. Used Charle’s Proxy to check Mobile app API’s Response and logs. Assessed and analysed user stories and participated in Sprint planning, Review Sessions & Scrum Meetings and developed Test scenarios, Test cases, Test data, Test procedures, Test reports. Proficient in writing SQL queries to test the Oracle database and making validations. Monitoring and Creating bugs bases on Crash analytics Reports for Mobile APP’s. Conducted smoke, functional, regression and cross browser testing (Chrome, IE, Fire fox, Responsive) on website and mobile platforms. For web Applications exceptions monitoring Sentry. Worked with white, black and grey box Testing/Analysis. Environment: s: Jenkins, SOAP UI, Visual studio 2010,Maven, Cucumber, BDD, TestNG, Page Object Model (POM),TortoiseSVN,RQM,Confluence,Self Service,Sentry,RollBar Quality Center, XPATH, Eclipse, TDD, Agile, GIT, SQL, Jira, Xcode, Android Studio, Genymotion, charle’s proxy, Elastic Search, New relic, Launch Darkly, Test Flight. Confidential, Santa Monica, CA Sr. Test Engineer /Mobile APP Tester Responsibilities: Worked on Analysing business requirements/system requirements/functional testing requirements for opportunities pursued by the Business Group and built consumer facing applications. Worked on sales force module and verified dealers data. Creating and testing salesforce CRM Workflows, Approval Processes Validation Rules and sharing & Security rules. Worked under Agile Methodology where we do continuous PROD Deployments/Monolith release process using Space pods and used Change management system (CM) for legacy releases. Performed test planning and release coordination. Will involve in QA, Staging, UAT and PROD Deployments Using View Master. Assessed and analysed user stories and participated in Sprint planning, Review Sessions & Scrum Meetings and developed Test scenarios, Test cases, Test data, Test procedures, Test reports. Developed and maintained automated regression test cases in Selenium WebDriver using Java programming language and TestNG Framework. Designed and Developed UAT Regression automation script using Selenium and WebDriver. Responsible for creating and maintaining Automation acceptance test suite using Selenium, Ruby and Cucumber framework. Also, responsible for converting automation scripts to new framework using Selenium WebDriver, Java and TestNG. Created Automation test framework using Selenium WebDriver with platform team. And reviewed and provided feedbacks to platform team for which they designed for QA team usage. Exported Test Case Scripts (Java-Selenium WebDriver) in Eclipse IDE and modified the selenium scripts and executed. Prepared automation test framework (Junit). Created and executed test cases for mobile app testing and actively participated in testing release checklists in Test flight version of APP.Mobile APP Verification using physical IOS and Android Devices along with emulators and simulators. Used Charle’s Proxy to check Mobile app API’s Response and logs. Developed and maintained Backend Automation suits and Automated Web Services by using SOAP UI.And used Swagger docs to maintain the all Applications API’s.Maintained backend queries where we get a single Auth. token for Consumers. Created and maintained Jenkins Jobs and CI branch maintenance. Conducted smoke, functional, regression and cross browser testing (Chrome, IE, Fire fox, Responsive) on website and mobile platforms. Involved the quality assurance activities of enterprise website launch, publisher launch, client launch, carrier launches. Extensive experience in using the QA tools like Win runner, Load runner, Selenium IDE. Analysed system requirements and functional requirement/documents. Involved in Back End testing by extracting flat files from server, which were generated by Batch process to verify Data against Expected results. Identifying the set of manual test cases which needs to be automated using Ruby and cucumber. Proficient in writing SQL queries to test the Oracle database and making validations. Tested applications using various flag turn on and off conditions using Launch Darkly and pacman . Keep tracking Jira and updating the backlog tickets. Actively reviewing Automation PR’s along with my PR buddies team. Responsible for Unit Test plan/specifications with documented test results. Conducted/Involved in the review meetings and walkthroughs to discuss the status of the project. And actively participated in stand ups and sprint planning’s. And Co-ordinating with offshore team and reviewing their daily status reports. Environment: s: Selenium Sales force testing, Jenkins, SOAP UI, Visual studio 2010, .Net, ASP.NET, Maven, Cucumber, BDD, TestNG, Page Object Model (POM), Quality Center, XPATH, Eclipse, TDD, Agile, GIT, SQL, Jira, Xcode, Android Studio, Genymotion, charle’s proxy, Elastic Search, New relic, Launch Darkly, Test Flight. Confidential, Malvern, PA Automation Test Engineer Responsibilities: Worked in the Agile environment with frequently changing requirements and features set Experienced with working on salesforce module with ad-hoc Prepared Test Plans, Test Scripts and Test Cases based on functional specifications and user requirements. Experience in analysing CRM module, case management analysis. Designed test cases based on the use-cases and the complex business logic defined for each web-service or a message. Helped in preparation of test plans in accordance with the business requirements. Developed and Executed Automation and Manual test cases for Functional testing of various modules of the application. Responsible in executing Selenium test scripts on different browsers and checked for compatibility. Effectively participated in every day agile scrum stand-up meetings and participated in Iteration planning and Retrospective meetings. Executed Automation Testing for Java/J2EE applications using Selenium IDE & Selenium RC. Developed Selenium RC Scripts using java and Junit covering all requirements for enhancements. Involved in Automation of Web Application using Selenium IDE. Created automated scenarios using Selenium for regression and Data-Driven testing. Involved in executing automated test cases using Selenium WebDriver to automate manual testing solutions. Involved in executing automated test cases using Selenium WebDriver to automate manual testing solutions. Used Selenium IDE for recording and involved in developing new Selenium Scripts using Java API to automate Web Application Testing. Used SQL queries to perform the back-end testing on Oracle. Worked with users on User Acceptance Testing. Involved in tracking and reporting defects using QC and was also responsible for communicating the status to the development team. Used HP Quality Center to report defects and test results. Created the test data and request for the test data dependent with the other applications to be used in the testing activities for the current release. Exported test case scripts in Eclipse IDE and modified the Selenium scripts and executed; Prepared automation test framework (Junit and Maven). And worked on acceptance testing using Cucumber. Extensively used Selenium (data-driven, XPath locator) and WebDriver to test the web application. Utilized various test tools for automation of test cases Generate test reports and performed extensive Web Services testing using SOAP UI. Used SOAP UI tool to test SOA based architecture application to test SOAP services and REST API. Used JIRA to track the tasks and issues, attended daily status meetings to update the status of work. Environment: s: Salesforce,Selenium WebDriver, Jenkins, SOAP UI, Visual studio 2010, .Net, ASP.NET, Maven, Cucumber, BDD, TestNG, Page Object Model (POM), Quality Center, XPATH, Eclipse, TDD, Agile, GIT, SQL, Jira. Confidential, IL Automation/ Web Service Tester Responsibilities: Created daily automated build acceptance testing based on Coded UI and C# in way automation suites of manual test cases. Switched from Coded UI to Selenium Web driver midway into development and rewrote many integration tests. Developed automated regression test scripts from manual test scenarios with Visual Studio Coded UI automation tool. Made robust and dynamic automation scripts following hand coding technique besides record and play back in CodedUI. User interface tested with Coded UI Technique. Used C# selenium scripts to develop coded UI automation instead of record and play back options. Very good experience with C# - WCF Services/ SOAPUI Testing, Coded UI Testing. Proficient with Test Automation using testing tools like Quickest Professional, Coded UI and Selenium. Automated a data driven approach for creating journals with indefinite number of rows in the Journal template excel application in Coded UI Automation. As a Coded UI automation developer update the Scrum. Participate in Sprint Planning, Retrospective, Grooming. Service Interaction layer, Application Development Management, Coded UI Automation, Three tier architecture, Coded UI Test Builder. Written automation test cases in one of the following languages: Java, C#.Net, Asp.Net, SQL Server 2012,Selenium, and Web Driver. Experienced in developing client/server and web applications usingC#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Oracle and SQL Server 2000 and SQL Server 2005. Environment: s: Microsoft Visio, C#, ASP.NET, Microsoft Project, Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, JavaScript, HTML, Windows, SOAP, Agile Methodology, Java, J2EE, DB2, Adobe Flash player, Soap UI, JIRA Tool for Bug tracking. Confidential, Austin, TX Test Engineer Responsibilities: Preparing the Business Components, adding Objects to the shared Repository, preparing the Data Table, executing the scripts inQTPon Mainframe CICS screens. Performed the migration testing and data validation in LPS application under CICS platform using Excel VB macros and converted it intoQTPpackaging. Good exposure on different automation tools like Lean FT with JAVA Eclipse IDE,UFT12.53/QTP/UFT, Selenium WebDriver. Responsible for Test Automation using Quick Test Professional (QTP) /UFT, Design and create automation test harness and test bed to support multiple applications on multiple browsers in QTP/UFT. Responsible for integrating Quality Center /ALM withQTP/UFTusing Open Test Architecture (OTA). Create UFT12.02 scripts and execute them from ALM/Quality Center Test Lab to regression test various company systems. Converted all QTP11.00 scripts to UFT12.02 scripts. WriteUFT/QTPfunctions that handle the properties of different versions of Web browsers such as IE8, IE9, IE10, IE11, etc. Utilize Descriptive Programming and regular expressions to optimize performance and keep UFT and QTP scripts as low maintenance as possible. Developed and maintained QTP/UFT test scripts to support regression testing whenever a Change Request is completed. Created Exception handlers and user-defined functions inQTP/UFT Installation and configuration of HP Load Runner andQTP. Created and implemented QTP scripts for functional and regression testing. Design, implement and maintain the QA Automation Hybrid framework using QTP and developed VB scripts inQTP. Integrating Quick Test Pro(QTP)/UFTwith Quality Center(QC)/ALM and scheduling the execution of Quick Test Pro(QTP)/UFTscripts from the Quality Center(QC)/ALM to perform Regression Testing and Integration Testing. Responsible for performing Functional testing on the application by creating Manual and Automated Test Scripts using VB Script in Quick Test Pro(QTP)/UFT. Environment: s: Quick Test Professional (Qtp), Hp Quality Center, Water Fall Methodology, Oracle, Sql, Vb Scripting, T-Sql, Sql Server Confidential Manual Tester Responsibilities: Involved intestingthe Facets application from end to end manually. Attended Daily/Weekly status calls from the Client/Onsite Coordinators. Analysing the System Requirement and involved inmanualtestingof applicationsServed customers on product quality and current availability status. Good experience in Agile and Waterfall methodology. Extensively worked as a QA Analyst in Web applications, Client Server Applications and Database Systems for different software domains. Good experience in SQL queries and Joins Executing Shell script in UNIX / Linux. Testingand User Acceptance Testing. Experience in Black Boxtesting. Involved in ETL Testing(Data is extracted from flat files, multiple databases and transferred to target database. Validated the data as per the Mapping Documents. Involved in Test Strategy, Test Plans, Test Cases, Test Results, Bug Reports using Process Management tool and bug management tool. Reporting and reviewing bugs in Mingle and JIRA. Environment: s: Java, JavaScript, Load runner/win runner, and MySQL, QC, Linux 