SUMMARY Over 5+ years of experience in Software Industry with Quality Assurance and Manual, Functional, Automation Testing of Web applications and Mobile applications developed in Web, Mobile, and Client/Server environment using Agile and Scrum test methodologies. Good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Test Life Cycle (STLC), Bug Life Cycle of its different phases. Solid working experience of AGILE Methodologies and scrum processes. Experienced in developing and executing manual and automated tests in different platforms using Java and the Seleniumlibrary. Experienced in Development of Automation Scripts, Execution and Analyzing the Test Results using Hybrid, Jasmine framework, Behavior Driven Development (BDD), Test Driven Development (TDD), Cucumber, Keyword Driven Framework, Data Driven Framework. Expertise in writing Automation scripts in Selenium using Java, programming languages. Proficient in using test Automation tools such as Selenium WebDriver/RC/IDE/Grid, QTP and QTP, Appium to develop Automationtesting scripts for web, Mobile and client server applications. Hands on experience of Mobile Apps Testing in Manual testing of Mobile Apps. Responsible to verify Web services API request, response data validations in REST and SOAP protocols. Good knowledge in performing numerous counts of functional, regression, smoke and sanity testing using Selenium. Expertise in Automation using WebDriver, Ruby, Cucumber, Page object Model (POM), &Jenkins. Extensive hands on experience with Manual Testing using HP Quality center. Ability to test backend applications by writing SQL statements. Strong in developing and executing Test Plans, Test Cases and Test Scenarios for manual/automated testing. Strong in writing SQL queries to perform backend data validations. Interacted with developers & various members of team to discuss and resolve defects and their priorities. Ability to interact with developers and product analysts regarding Testing status and Defect & Change Tracking using Quality center and JIRA. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver/IDE/GRID/RC, HP Quality Center/ALM, Junit, TestNG, JIRA, SOAPUI, QTP, Eclipse, Protractor, JMeter, Cucumber, Firebug, FirePath, Coded UI, Appium. Language/ Script: Java, JavaScript, Shell Script, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, VBScript(UFT), Groovy Script Frameworks: Junit, TestNG, TDD, BDD, Robot Framework. Firefox Add - ons: XPath, Firebug, FirePath. Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, XSD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, AJAX, JSP, XML, CSS, Flash. SQA Technologies: SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI, Web Services, SOAP UI, Ready API Bug Tracking Tools: HP Quality Center, Bugzilla, JIRA. Build/ Tools: Ant, Maven, Jenkins Databases Technologies: MS SQL Server and OLTP, Oracle 9i/10g, MS Access 2000, SQL, Oracle PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, TOAD, SQL*Loader, MYSQL, SASEG. Operating Systems: Windows XP, 7, 8,10/vista & server 2003, UNIX and Mac PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, CHARLOTTE, NC Selenium & API Tester Responsibilities: Analyzed the Business Requirement Document (BRD) and Functional Specification documents (FSD) to prepare Test Cases based on the Test Plan and Use Cases and attended Reviews meetings to better understand the applications. Responsible for implementation of Hybrid Test Automation Framework, Page Object Model using selenium WebDriver, TestNG and Maven and Java. Strong knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies such as Agile, SCRUM and waterfall models and TDD. ALM, used to write manual test cases and Execute them and provided a detailed documentation on it. Planned, monitored and managed all activities related to Automation Testing. Provided with the testing results of all testing cycle on regular basis. Used SOAP UI/Postman tool to test SOA based architecture application to test SOAP services and Rest API. Developed automation test scripts for Regression testing. Designed and automated selenium scripts test Case scripts in IntellJ IDE and executed. Extensively worked on different types of Black Box Testing techniques (Functional Testing, Regression Testing, User acceptance Testing, system testing, security testing, GUI testing, Smoke testing, Compatibility Testing and also Database testing). Involved in running Selenium automationscripts and updating the scripts according to enhanced requirements using seleniumWebDriver. Worked on building test automationframework using selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Cucumber, Maven, and Page Factory for Page Object Model (POM). Triggered the automation jobs usingJenkinsto get the cucumber JSON reports. Implementedreal devicemobile app testing usingSee Test on thecloud. Implemented test automation scripts for mobile testing usingAppiumforAndroidandiOSapplications. Reported the found issues in bug tracking tool, followed up with the development team and verified them. Extensively used XPath and CSS to find the Web Elements using selenium and creating automation scripts. Involved in Daily Build and Deployments for Jenkins (CICD). Logged and managed defects using Quality Center/ALM defect management tool. Experienced in load and performance testing tool JMeter. Tests developed in IntellJ to start and to stop the Selenium server and to execute the tests in browser. Used Jenkins as continuous integration server to run automated test suites. Used web-debugging tools like XPath, Firebug and Firepath to locate elements. Implemented automation using Selenium Web Driver/IDE for performing browser Compatibility Testing. Able to work on own initiative and as part of a team and ability to acquire product knowledge and improving the knowledge through self-learning. Environment: HPALM11.0,Selenium2.4, Selenium RC,SeleniumIDE,SeleniumWeb Driver,SeleniumGrid,SeleniumWeb Driver API, Ready API,SOAP UI, Sauce Labs, Test Object, Charles Proxy, Manual Testing, Agile, Eclipse, Windows NT/7, Java, XML, XML SPY, HTML, JSP, VB Script, MS SQL, DB2, Toad, Teradata, Oracle 11g, SQL Server 2008, Test Director, Jira, PL/SQL and Windows2007. Confidential, Minneapolis, MN SR.Automation Responsibilities: Participated in sprint planning and followed AGILE Methodology. Involved in preparing status report and attending daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly meetings to update the automation status, challenges and efforts. Developed new and updated existing Automationscripts using Selenium WebDriver in Java. Maintained and updated the Manual Test case, Test Scripts and Test Data as per the evolving requirement. Done java coding extensively for Data Driven framework and Keyword Driven Framework by using TestNG framework along withSeleniumIDE,Selenium. Designed AutomationTest cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, Junit, Maven. Designed the test cases for the complete application modules. Prepared manual & functional test cases on web applications as per requirements. Peer reviewing of designed test cases. Created and executed SOAP UI Scripts for the Web Services testing. Also involved in Designing Functional and UI test cases. Reported bug using Project Tracking tool JIRA. Used web-debugging tools like XPath, Firebug and FirePath to locate elements. Executed the Test Cases to verify actual results to expected results. Used BDD framework with Cucumber, Java and created future files with scenario and scenario outline files. Web Service testing (RESTful API) andAutomationusing Apache JMeter using JSON, XML payloads. Responsible to verify Web services API request, response data validations in REST and SOAP protocols. Prepared manual & function test cases on web and mobile applications (Apple & Android) as per requirements. Trained the team on how to use the developed framework, how to write the scripts with all quality standards, how to implement the change management system in the automation suites and how to prepare the user-friendly documentation for the scripts. Involved in writing test scripts usingjava and executed it through selenium cucumber. Executed SQL queries to perform backend database testing and verify/modify user data. Worked in Database Testing using SQL queries with multiple Databases which includes Oracle, SQL Server. Tested several Data warehouse ETLInformatica Mappings to validate the business conditions. Tested Informatica ETLmappings that transfer data from source systems to the Data Mart. Experienced in writing Test Plans, Test Cases, Test Procedures and Test Scripts from Requirements and Use-Cases. Excellent understanding of Software HP ALM/ Quality Center. Developed reusable Generic and Application functions using these functional can be used anywhere in the test scripts. Prepared user documentation with screenshots for UAT (User Acceptance testing). Participated in Release Review/Requirement Analysis and Design review meetings. Environment: HP QC/ALM, JIRA, Selenium IDE, Web Driver, SASEG, Jmeter, JUnit, TestNG, Maven, Jenkins, ChroPath, Firebug, HTML, Internet Explorer, Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Linux, Windows XP, Java, Eclipse, XML, EXCEL, SQL, Windows. Confidential, St. Louis QA Engineer Responsibilities: Analyze Business requirements, use cases and Design Documents to develop test efforts in the Test Plan and generate test scenarios and test cases. Extensively involved in all stages of testing life cycle, Test Driven Development methodologies, Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) using Agile methodologies. Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven tool and created selenium automation scripts in java using TestNG prior to agile release. Active member of team for developing Automation scripts by using selenium for web, .Net and Java applications. Active member of team for developing Automation scripts for Flex applications by using Test complete tool. Developed test code in Java language using Eclipse, IDE and TestNG framework. Developed Test cases manually and generated Automation Scripts using open source tools like Selenium Web Driver, TestNG, SoapUI, Maven and Jenkins. Performed SOA testing for payments API's using SOAP UI and Java framework for web services testing. Used TestNG Annotations in Selenium WebDriver and executed a batch of tests as TestNG suite. Worked on Selenium GUI Object / element verification is done through XPath, CSS Locators. Communicating with client on project status on daily and weekly basis. Participated & coordinated extensively during User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Identified and created a repository of Test Conditions in MS Excel. Involved in validating Sanity, functional, Integration and Regression test suites using Selenium. Used Firebug to do web-based application testing with selenium for the commands and locator application. Involved in executing SQL queries procedures, functions and packages for backend testing. Used SQL Queries to verify the data from the Oracle database. Reporting the issues in JIRA and follow up on bug fixes. Also involved in Designing Functional and UI Test cases. Monitor test execution progress and ensure minimal schedule variance. Involved in preparation of Regression and Smoke test cases for new sites. Involved in documentation as to how to maintain and run scripts for future enhancements. Responsible for testing the application against different environments in QA, staging and production. Environment: Selenium web driver, Java, JDBC, Git, Cucumber, Jenkins, HTML, MySQL, Quality Center, SOA Tester, SOAP UI, BDD, Agile Confidential QA Tester Responsibilities: Involved in implementing each phase of SDLC and coordinated in test environment setup. Gathered Business Requirement Specification (BRS), by attending a series of meetings and explained the testing requirements and environment. Analyzed and reviewed requirement document to create the test plans, Test cases and test Scripts. Involved in development, execution, and improvement of testing processes. Participated in reviews and meetings. Wrote Structure Query Language (SQL) queries to validate data in application tables and for data verification to perform backend testingusing SQL Server Database Designed test plan for QA testing using a well-defined testing methodology. Performed manual testing using Quality Center/ ALM. Supported data gathering and analysis of data. Participated in data quality control and validation. Develop Web Service test with Soap UI to test SOA platform. Involved in automated testing using selenium. Involved in backend testing using SQL Queries. Performed black box testing techniques. Communicated bugs status well to across all engineering teams. Prioritizing the bugs and keeping track of them through defect tracking tools. Interfaced with development team to point out bugs and retest fixed bugs. Generated reports and documents for the entire test process and test results using Quality Center. Uploaded the test cases from Excel to Quality center. Environment: Manual Testing, QTP, Quality Center, Java, SoapUI, Firepath, Firebug, Oracle PL/SQL, Test Cases, Test Plans, Root Cases, Windows 7/ XP. 