SUMMARY Hands on 15 years of experience in leading and executing large complex Tier 1 testing engagements and programs for large organizations like Confidential, Confidential, Confidential, and Confidential Bank. Creditable experience in managing and delivering Automation of functional and regression suits using UFT, Selenium, Cucumber, Lisa and other toolsets for larger ROI. Strong business aptitude with ability to understand business processes and technical requirements. Pioneer in delivering In - sprint automation using a BDD approach and shift left the automation from regression to sprint level. Experience in managing all aspects of testing deliveries in Waterfall and Agile methodology including budgeting, planning, forecasting, estimation, test strategy, test plan, test data, test environments, CI/CD and DevOps. Experience in executing all types of testing including GUI, API, Performance, Capacity, Functional, UAT, Regression, Inflight, Recovery, Mainframe, Data-driven, Web method and Non-functional testing. Release management, Test Environments and Test Data Management. Onshore and offshore team coordination and management. Resource forecasting, demand management, allocations, and productivity optimization. Influential, thoughtful and collaborative leadership for successful delivery. Strong vendor, people, and stakeholder management. Crisp and clear in speaking and writing communication skills. Global work exposure at Canada, US, UK and South Africa. TECHNICAL SKILLS OS: Windows 2000/NT, UNIX, iOS, MacOS, Android. Tools: and Testing: Functional and non-functional testing, JIRA, Confluence, Perforce and QTP, Mainframe testing and Green hat, Selenium, Jenkins, Cucumber, LISA, HP ALM Banking Domain: Payments, GPP, CLS, Currencies,Retail banking, Corporate Banking, ACH, ISO8583, EFT, Sanctions, Cash management, Contact Center, FX trades, Wire transfers, Payments, SWIFT and EDIFACT. Others: VM ware, Blade logic, Service Now, Web view MQ, IBM TivoliandWeb method testing, Oracle Hyperion Financial Management, Docker/Container, PeopleSoft testing, Hyperion Financial Management (HFM) PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE QA Consultant/QA Lead Confidential Responsibilities: Own Test Strategy and planning for the project. Interaction and coordination with Development, Design teams, project management and Business teams. Prepare Test scenarios, Test scripts and involved in Test execution. Usage of HP ALM for Test Management and Defect Tracking. UFT Automation regression suite execution. Coordinate with Business for UAT and Integration testing scope. Conduct webservice testing and Multiple device testing for application. Conduct Defect Triage meeting and ensure quick turnaround for defect fixes. Review testing artifacts. Provide timely and accurate progress to Management and stakeholders. Device testing on different devices and browsers. QE Lead Confidential Responsibilities: Leading QE efforts in Agile (Scrum) methodology portfolio having 7-8 Scrum teams and single point of contact for Testing. Owning and implementing Test Strategy, Automation Test Strategy and Test Plans for larger programs and multiple projects. Led transformation efforts for Manual testing to Automation testing drive. Participation and contribute in technical, design, architecture and Scrum of Scrum meetings. Work closely with Scrum Masters and Development leads to align deployments and builds. Act as Scrum Master for 2 scrum teams on need basis. Participating in Agile ceremonies, collaborating with development team, product owner and contributing to product development by completing automation and manual testing tasks of each iteration. Identify Automation opportunities and implementation using Selenium, Cucumber and SoapUI. LISA Virtualization of SOAP and Rest webservices for third party systems. Lead API automation, BDD Automation using Cucumber and Selenium Automation efforts. Responsible for designing frameworks for different automation needs, leading automation executions, maintenance and new development of all applications. Release planning, vendor management, task assignment, coordination along with staff management, coaching and stakeholder communication to plan testing activities. Coordinating efforts for Test Environment readiness, impact analysis, change and hotfix builds and Integration testing. Conducting System, Integration and Production Verification testing. Shift left Automation testing from Regression to Sprint level. Implement Quality governance processes and engineering disciplines aligned with organization roadmap. Implement continuous Integration for Automation tests using DevOps tools like Jenkins and Docker/Container. Coach and Mentor teams, hiring, vendor management, stakeholder management and involvement into other organizational activities. IT Test Manager Confidential Responsibilities: End to End Program Test management for Tier 1 Strategic program for Confidential in Finance group. Understand the high level and detailed level requirements and clarify any issues/queries. Estimate, monitor and control testing budget for projects above 1MM CAD. Define Technology Test Strategy and approach Engagement with the vendor, business teams and key stakeholders. Review and approve business, performance and component test strategies. Identify resource forecast and prepare a resource model. Identify test data and test environment requirements. Review test scenarios and test cases. Identify testing risks, issues, dependencies and assumptions, and their mitigation Engage upstream and downstream systems for testing support. Program Manager Confidential Responsibilities: Program manager for Infrastructure upgrade initiative. Working closely with Business, DBAs, Application teams for Test/Dev and Prod upgrade Preparing and aligning Project plan, Budget, Schedule, Scope, Test Strategy and Test plan. Preparing Test scenarios and checklist for Pre-upgrade, upgrade and post-upgrade testing of Databases. Production Test data profiling and securing. Production builds testing and readiness. Offshore and onshore tester coordination and management. Test automation and execution of regression Test tests. Monitoring and controlling overall budget, schedule and scope. Program Test Manager Confidential Responsibilities: End to End Test Manager for Tier 1 Services- CustD and FCL in Global Payments. Create and execute test plans, test data, test environment, scenarios and scripts for manual testing. Analyze and ensure business requirement test coverage based on QA standards. Test Data identification, Test Data profiling, and obfuscation for sensitive information. Test Data Strategy for SWIFT messages required for Functional and non-functional testing. Understanding test data requirements for payment feeds to be processed and secure live data. Automation using QTP and Greenhat for creating utilities and simulators for downstream and upstream systems. Test Data creation for MT type messages for SWIFT. Using Greenhat tester to generate the test data for input feeds in DB and MQ queues. Work with business analysis and development teams to understand business and technical requirements and/ or gaps. Occasionally interact with business subject matter experts as needed. Contribute to QA testing improvements based on prior and current experience QA Lead Confidential Responsibilities: Accountable for releasing deliverables as per the agreed acceptance criteria and quality standards Align resources and test execution across different teams. Conduct workshops with functional and IT teams to document test cases for integration and end-to-end test scenarios. Work closely with other work streams to identify dependencies. Consistently adhere to client security protocols: access, data, etc. Ensure all deliverables are of high quality and delivered on time. Functional and Automation Testing using QTP. Hands on with GH Tester to test FX and SWIFT messages for Capacity and Performance Testing. ETL Testing for SWIFT to EDIFACT conversions. Usage of SQL and Unix to test Web methods. Test Engineer Confidential Responsibilities: Testing of Internet Banking System for Retail Banking product division. Worked at Confidential (South Africa) with the business team for Internet Banking knowledge transfer. Testing for NACHA format transfers through FED. Testing for OFAC and sanctions as per OFAC List for EFT (Electronics fund transfers) Ensured execution of identified Test Cases and completion of Compatibility testing. Security, XSS, Pass mark and Functional testing