SUMMARY 5 + years of experience in the IT industry with emphasis on Quality Assurance/Software Testing with exposure of Manual and Automated testing in Banking/retail domain. Expertise in validating and testing of Client/Server and Web - Based Applications in various environments. Extensive Retail Industry Experience Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle. Strong experience in Agile (Scrum) environment, actively participated in sprint planning, sprint review, daily scrum meetings and scrum of scrum meetings as part of agile process. Top skills in HP/ALM Quality Center, TOSCA, Mobile Testing (iOS and Android Applications), and Defect Tracking in JIRA. Ability to perform Back End Testing by executing SQL queries. Involved in Black Box, Positive, Negative, System integration Testing. Experience in Stress, Load, Performance and Volume Testing. Diversified experience in testing at every phase of the testing process: Functional, Integration, Regression, User- Acceptance, System, End-to-End and Black Box testing. Experience working with UNIX, SQL scripting, managed version control software and defect tracking systems. Expertise in Problem solving and Bug Reports using Bug Tracking Tools ALM Quality Center, JIRA, and Clear Quest. Experience in creating Requirements Traceability Matrix to ensure comprehensive test coverage of Business requirements. Experience in developing and executing test plans and Created test plans and test scenarios to prove the compliance of the solutions. Hands-on experience in B2B, B2C, Point of Sale (POS Pulse) and Ecommerce/Retail portals web application projects, good understanding on allPOSfunctionalities (Sale, Refund, Reversal, Cash back, Void, Abort, etc.) Extensive experience in Data warehousing, design of Extraction Transform & Load (ETL) environment. Excellent communication, documentation, presentation and organization skills with quick learning ability to adapt to a new environment. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Language: SQL, JAVA, VB, C++, C#, RUBY, Python, .NET Front End Tools: MS Office, MS Project Professional, MS Access, Lotus Notes, Apache Axis 2 Databases: MS Access, Oracle, MS SQL Server, SYBASE, PeopleSoft, and DB2 Database Tools: TOAD, MS SQL Server Management studio Testing Tools: Quality Center (QC/ ALM), Quick Test professional (QTP/ UTF), TOSCA, Load runner, selenium IDE & selenium web driver, SOAP UI BI Tools: Cognos/Business Objects, Web Intelligence, Crystal Report Reporting Tools: JIRA, Clear Quest, and Bugzilla PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Charlotte NC QA Tester Responsibilities: Analyzed the user requirements by participated in all phases like Inception, Quick Start, Design Storming and Review meetings of functional requirements specifications and design specifications. Coordinated with business analyst/users on thetest script reviewand sign-off. Worked in agile environment with 2-week sprints, used JIRA for sprint planning and tracking the reports. Involved in preparing the high-level Test Plan and developed Test Casesin accordance with thefunctional specifications. Worked closely with all Managers and Team Lead to estimate test effort, schedule and develop testing tasks according to agreed scope milestones in order to meet overall project timelines. Participated in Test Case Review and Test Approach/Architecture. Effectively wrote Test Cases, Test Scripts for Web based application, tested Functional and Regression testing on each new builds of application without affecting the overall Functionality on new changes. Major role in deriving the standard Test Plans, writing Test Cases and Test Reports based on Acceptance Criteria. Involved in validating Back-end data by using SQL extensively used TOAD. Designed Test cases from Requirements, Functional Specifications and Design Documents. Performed vital check validation using TOSCA tool. Involved in various Testing like Exploratory, General Regression, Corporate Integration, Tax code, Implementation of the Application. Expertise in Shakeout testing after all the code is moved to the production to validate the components that were enhanced to support the new front end. Expertise in Tax code testing using Single Sign-on for Universal Check-out and Sister Site links for Universal shopping bag functionality. Developed, wrote Test Cases in the Test Plan, executed in Test Lab and reported Defects through Mercury Quality Center and conducted Bug-Review meetings as per Business requirements. Interacted with developers to report software bugs and re-tested the fixed issues. Environment: TOSCA, XML, SOAPUI, UNIX, TOAD, SQL, ALM Quality Center, JIRA, MS SQL Server, NETIZA Confidential, Washington DC QA Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in creating Test cases based on the business requirements in ALM. JIRA used for story writing and reporting. Worked along with testing team in creation of Testing Scenarios. Performed Requirement Decomposition to identify High Level Test Scenarios from Specification. Revised and Updated the Test Cases for testing in each subsequent cycle to reflect the changing business requirements. Creating UAT Test Plans, Test Cases, and Test Scripts Performing UAT Execution, Defect ManagementFinancial Reconciliation and Data Validation using SQL. Participate in the testing and business checkout of each major release and dot-release. Createdand Maintained Traceability Matrix to ensure test coverage of all requirements. Interacted with developers in getting proper explanation for any issues or concerns from the offshore. Participate the Defect Review Board meetings with the project team and business analysts. Performed Back-end testing of data by writing SQL queries in TOAD. Performed full backend testing using complex SQL queries. Tracked and logged defects in Quality Centerand coordinated meetings with developers and business analysts to prioritize the bugs, bug fixes and problem resolution Preparing Weekly Status Reports/Daily Status reports. Participated in developing and implementing End-to-End testing manually. Coordinating between QA Manager, Developers and Team Members. Assisted Team members in knowledge transfer. Worked on Regression & Alpha / Beta Tests. Conducted defect review meetings with the team members. Participated in regression testing after each build. Used SOAPUI for web service testing. Test GUI and functionality on Windows 7, MAC OS X, Android, iOS platforms using VMWare and report numerous software defects in that area Test various mobile devices with a various platform (iOS, Android) Environment: JIRA, JAWS, WAVE, ALM/Quality Center, Business Objects, ETL, SOAP UI, JAVA, UNIX, XML, Oracle, SQL, Apache Confidential, Westborough, MA Manual QA Tester Responsibilities: Analyzed the user requirements by participated in all phases like Inception, Quick Start, Design Storming and Review meetings of functional requirements specifications and design specifications. Coordinated with business analyst/users on thetest script reviewand sign-off. Worked in agile environment with 2-week sprints, used JIRA for sprint planning and tracking the reports. Involved in preparing the high-levelTest Planand developed Test Casesin accordance with thefunctional specifications. Worked closely with all Managers and Team Lead to estimate test effort, schedule and develop testing tasks according to agreed scope milestones in order to meet overall project timelines. Participated in Test Case Review and Test Approach/Architecture. Effectively wrote Test Cases, Test Scripts for Web based application, tested Functional and Regression testing on each new builds of application without affecting the overall Functionality on new changes. Major role in deriving the standard Test Plans, writing Test Cases and Test Reports based on Acceptance Criteria. Involved in validating Back-end data by using SQL extensively used TOAD. Designed Test cases from Requirements, Functional Specifications and Design Documents. Performed vital check validation using TOSCA tool. Involved in various Testing like Exploratory, General Regression, Corporate Integration, Tax code, Implementation of the Application. Expertise in Shakeout testing after all the code is moved to the production to validate the components that were enhanced to support the new front end. Expertise in Tax code testing using Single Sign-on for Universal Check-out and Sister Site links for Universal shopping bag functionality. Developed, wrote Test Cases in the Test Plan, executed in Test Lab and reported Defects through Mercury Quality Center and conducted Bug-Review meetings as per Business requirements. Interacted with developers to report software bugs and re-tested the fixed issues. Direct interaction with the Business Analyst and Development team while requirements review tracking and reporting the bugs for the quality output. Worked not only as a Tester but also as a software analyst and studied a number of similar products to help design the product bases on industry’s best practices. Actively participated in project related daily Stand-ups, Huddles, Call-outs and Blockers to maintain a high level of quality for the project. Root Cause Analysis (RCA) on situations or major incidents. Environment: TOSCA, XML, SOAPUI, UNIX, TOAD, SQL, ALM Quality Center, JIRA, MS SQL Server, NETIZA Confidential, San Francisco, CA Manual QA Tester Responsibilities: Performed Functional, GUI, Regression, System Integration, User Acceptance, Configuration and content testing of variousPOSfunctions: Sales Transaction Set including Purchases, purchases with Cash, Check Authorizations, Merchandise Returns, etc. Tested the POS functionalities and hardware manually. Tested the Order Management system on POS. Involved in POS Hardware testing. Performed integrated testing, smoke testing, regression testing, end to end testing as well as system testing. Performed Positive and Negative testing to test response of the application under test by creating Data Driven tests. Set up meetings with project manager on outlook if needed or even withQAlead. Discussed with team about some complicated test cases. Involved in preparing the high-levelTest Planand developedTest Casesin accordance with thefunctional specifications Prepared thegap analysisdocument by analyzing both the requirement specification document and design specification document Coordinated end to end testing with clients and functional team. Tracked and logged defects inQuality Centerand coordinated meetings with developers and business analysts to prioritize the bugs, bug fixes and problem resolution Used Selenium IDE to record and play back scripts. Responsible for testing all new and existing ETL data warehouse components. Performed SOA / Web Service testing using soapUI Review the test cases/executions done by the team Preparing Weekly Status Reports/Daily Status reports Expertise in testing effortestimation Established Traceability between the Requirements and the Tests in Traceability Matrix usingQuality Center Verified WSDL files, asserting the files using various In-build assertions, performed Data driven testing, mocking and automation of web services inSOAP UI Involved in Bug Review meetings and participated in weekly meetings with management team Planned and executed Backend testing using numerous SQL Queriesto verify the dataflow from the database Attended Change Control Process Meetings to document changes and implemented those changes to corresponding test plans Organized and managed all phases of thesoftware testing process, includingplanning tests, executing tests, and tracking defects Actively participated in Enhancement meetings to distinguish between bugs and enhancements Since the applications contains sensitive information of customers, performed security testing to ensure that security was maintained throughout the application Coordination of test plan, test results and reports in central repository - Share point portal Worked with the business users on User Acceptance Testing by mentoring them on various aspects of testing Environment: POS, ALM/Quality Center, Business Objects, ETL, Load Runner, SOAP UI, JAVA, UNIX, XML, Oracle, SQL, Apache Confidential, Columbus OH QA Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in preparing test plans and test cases based on the functional requirement. Plan and implement testing and quality assurance initiatives to ensure solution quality before deployment. Strongly assists with creation of testing processes and procedures with input from business teams, development and IT support. Methodology was agile, where sprint was two week and JIRA used for user story creation, tasks, sub tasks, sprint reports, filters and tracking defects. Job operated within a very agile environment, employing 2-4 week sprints, daily scrum meetings, burn-down charts, task weighting, pair programming, refactoring, presentations and review. Designed and created test cases and test plans based on business requirements and functional specs Seeded test cases into Test Plan module of Quality Center. Involved in wiring Test scenarios, Generic tests cases, detail Positive and negative test cases for ETL Conducted meetings with QA Manager and members of Product team in order to receive approval on Test case coverage of requirements Used SQL queries to access the database for backend testing Reviewed extensive SQL Queries with complex multi-table joins and nested queries. Performed Smoke, Sanity and Usability tests Expert in Black Box, White Box, Functionality, and Compatibility Testing. Performed Functional tests using Standard, and Text Checkpoints Prepared Test Plan, Test cases, Testing Procedures, monitored QA, communicated with Project Manager and Systems Analyst, provided full support on Mainframe application whenever required Manually tested modules for compliance with functionality requirements Environment: Windows XP, Business Objects, ETL, Quality Center, Load Runner, Unix, Oracle, SQL 