SUMMARY Highly motivated QA Engineer with big data experience, quick learner. Self - starter, detail oriented and have the ability to work collaboratively with others. Excellent understanding of Software Development Life Cycle and Test Methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation Expertise in designing and developing strategic Test plans, Test Cases, Test Scripts, Test Scenarios, Test Reports for both manual and automated tests Extensive experience in Functional, Regression, Integration, User Acceptance, and System Testing. Excellent problem solving skills and testing experience in complex business systems. Proficient in testing GUI applications. Experience in cross browser testing. Ability to work well in fast paced team, dynamic environment. Knowledge of Agile, SCRUM processes. Expertise in Problem solving and Bug Reporting using Bug Tracking tools. Passionate for testing and a quick learner. Have a consistent track record of taking ownership and successfully completing jobs within deadlines Excellent team building, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills Have extensive experience managing multiple Quality Assurance projects through the entire software development life cycle to test complex products and applications. Have experience defining test and automation strategies. Have experience reviewing technical documents test cases, test plan release documents etc TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems:  Win  2012/2014/2016 , MS DOS, Sun Solaris, UNIX, Linux Testing Tools: Silk test 2008,9.0, Test Director 7.2, Quality center 8.2,9,10.0 QTP 9.5,10.0, Postman, Selenium Web driver Languages: Java, TestNG, Appium Framework:  Junit, TestNG Web Server: IIS 5.0, Apache, WebLogic Server, Tomcat Development Environment: Visual SourceSafe and Visual studio, Rational Team Concert, IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse Databases: Oracle, MS-SQL Server 2012/2014, PostgreSQL Version Control tools:  CVS, Perforce, GIT Extensions 2.46, ClearCase Bug tracking tools:  HP QC, Jira, Dev Track, Bugzilla PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Software Development Engineer in Test Responsibilities: Develop, plan, write and execute test strategies and test cases based on functional specification requirements, user stories and acceptance criteria. Work with the support team to help triage customer issues and generate bug tracking tickets. Identify, log and track bug activities and work closely with development team in resolving and verifying the defects. Testing and debugging applications in a Linux environment. Write automation code using Java, Junit framework to perform end to end testing, DB testing, API testing. Design automation framework. Working as Individual QA with dev team, participated in E2E Release cycles with automation build/ test and deploy on QA/PROD Env. Confidential, Santa Clara Sr. QA Engineer Responsibilities: Run automation suites on Hot fixes and major releases, write new test scripts for new features and maintain the existing test scripts. Develop automation standards document and best practices for the team. Train team members for new framework and execution and writing scripts. Manage release of major versions, HFRs monthly releases on 12 different languages. Analyze and categorize the bugs L10N, I18N etc, bug triage, lesson learning. Talk to developers, QA teams, product owners for new features. Scheduled testing cycles build drops. Install test environments for different releases .Create, maintain and manage VMs . Performed the role of scrum Master of Projects, run daily standups, discuss issues tasks etc Send weekly reports to the management. Wrote automation test cases using selenium web driver, page model, headless browser with Phantoms Hands on API testing using postman, SoapUI, test web pages for JavaScript errors using fiddler, IE and chrome dev tools. Setup Automation framework using selenium to run tests on different browsers and platforms. Involved in designing of automation framework to be used in UI testing with Selenium. Used Page Object Model design pattern to create Web Page objects repository. Created, modified test scripts to handle changes in the objects, in the tested application’s GUI and in the testing, environment using Selenium WebDriver. Used Id, Class Name, Xpath, CSS selectors to locate elements and dynamic objects on UI. Involved in design and implementation of Selenium WebDriver automation framework for smoke and regression test suites (TestNG and Maven). Confidential, San Francisco Test Automation Consultant Responsibilities: Develop test automation projects for functional, regression testing in Silk test and QTP. Conduct interviews and train junior QA engineers Write business processing components in QC- QTP framework Participate in bug triage meetings, requirements analysis, review meetings and daily scrums Develop automation framework prototypes for management teams and subject matter experts. Write test cases, test plan, test certificate for different releases. Worked for multiple projects like FLWeb, Star Modernization SCA projects in different departments like ITS, Statistics Maintain silkiest libraries for SCA functionality and write scripts in silk test for new features Develop automation framework for projects. Categorize test cases for automation, write test cases for regression, functional and data testing using queries. Run the test cases for multiple sets of data. Built and run test cases that run for more than 5 hours in SCA project. Confidential, Redwood City, CA Test Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Develop test automation projects covering functional and regression testing. Developed library of functions to be used for verification of data in databases. Dynamically determine properties for hard-to-recognize UI objects in scripts Utilize data-driven test automation methodology Write, edit, and upgrade test documentation - test plans, test suites, test cases, test certificates etc. Run SQL queries from script, modified queries in report for data level validation. Internationalization testing to verify that the application is working in German and English. Tested browser compatibility and operating systems compatibility. Communicated with offshore development team and bay area based QA team members to identify and resolve various issues Developed many end-to-end tests which represent the customer use case stories Automated over 100 regression test cases using Silk Test. Performed peer-to- peer code review, test plan and test cases reviews. Internal test plan review with QA team and with DEV and PM. Participate in agile/scrum process. Managed offshore team in Bangalore for PC health check and Subscriptions releases. Provided consolidated reports to the management based on testing of Redwood city team and Bangalore teams. Worked as an automation lead for the Gift card and the French Vanilla releases.