OBJECTIVE Seeking a challenging position as a Software Quality Assurance Tester where I could utilize my experience, knowledge and skills on Web based and Mobile Applications black box testing. SUMMARY Over 3 years of experience in Quality Assurance Testing of both Mobile and Web - Based Applications using Manual Procedures and Automated Tools. Extensive knowledge and experience in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle beginning from initiation and definition to deployment and support. Experience in agile software development environment. Proficient in analyzing Business/System Requirement documents, writing and executing Test Cases, Test Plans, Reporting and Tracking Defects. Knowledge and Experience in every phase of Testing Life Cycle and Expertise in performing different kinds of testing like Black Box Testing, Functionality Testing, GUI Testing, Integration Testing, System Testing, Data Driven Testing, Backend Testing, Regression Testing. Extensive experience and knowledge in tracking tools like JIRA and Bugzilla. Expertise in writing SQL queries to perform back end testing. Possess excellent communication and interpersonal skills, fast learner, strong team player wif clear understanding and goal oriented approach to problem solving. Exceptional ability to quickly master new software and apply full range of capabilities TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing Tools: Basics of Selenium, JMeter Languages: Basics of SQL, HTML, JavaScript, XML Bug Tracking: Bugzilla, Jira, Mantis Operating Systems: MAC OSX, WINDOWS Browsers: Chrome, Firefox, Edge, Internet Explorer, Safari, Opera Other: MS Office, Virtual Box PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Seattle, WA Software QA Tester Responsibilities: Tested an application dat is used to search models, and by models to post their resumes Tested a Social entertaining application to make and exchange funny movies and pictures Tested a MSQRD - Social entertaining application, making funny movie and picture Participate in meetings to discuss teh requirements, test cases, defects. Responsible for creating Test Strategy and Master Test Plan document. Responsible for creating Requirement Traceability Matrix after completion of each phase. Create manual test cases based on teh requirements. Execute test cases and log teh defects in Bugzilla Responsible for creating different variations of test data Conduct smoke, functional and system testing of teh applications Conduct manual verification of new features. Execute end-to-end regression testing using automation test tools (Selenium Webdriver) Troubleshoot production problems to analyze and identify root cause Conduct GUI testing in various browsers to make sure application TEMPhas browser compatibility Created MySQL scripts to verify UI to backend to database flow is correct Retest teh defects when teh fixes are available and follow up on defects for closure.