SUMMARY 9+ years of work experience in quality assurance with 6 years of experience in automation testing and 2+ years of experience in manual testing. Experienced in software testing methodology and developing Test Plans, Test Procedures, Test Case Design and Execution, Modification Requests. Highly experienced in software development life cycle (SDLC), software testing life cycle and configuration management. Testing experience includes Integration Testing, Regression Testing, Functional Testing, System Testing, UI Testing and Compatibility Testing. Experience in developing Functional Test Automation using Selenium (IDE, RC, Web Driver) and in using Test case framework like Junit/TestNG. Involved in suggesting Automation script standards to automation team according to CMMI level 5 standards Core technologies worked with included Quality center, Microsoft SQL server and Salesforce Developed ANT build files for maintaining test automation builds. Developed Java based library to read test data from XML & Properties files using Junit and Selenium. Experience in building / maintaining Automation Framework for Web Automation using Selenium& Java Experience developing SQL queries for database verifications. Experience in working on Version control tools like SVN. Implemented Data Driven frame work for Automation using Selenium and Java Highly experienced in designing and executing automation scripts in selenium. Experience using SOAPUI to validate SOAP/WSDL and web services. Worked with REST API services. Worked in designing frameworks and configuration files for Sales force application. Worked with functional and technical teams to ensure quality of test deliverables & timely completion of individual test plans. Hands - on experience working with UNIX environment. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing Tools: QTP, Automation, Selenium IDE, Selenium Web driver, HP quality center, Firebug, SOAPUI, Jmeter. Bug reporting tools: Bugzilla, Quality center Version Control: SVN, CVS, VSS, Github Browsers: Firefox, Internet Explorer, Confidential Chrome SDLC:  Waterfall methodology, Agile Operating systems/Networking:  Confidential Chrome, AS/400, Windows 2000/2003 server, Windows NT/2000/xp, UNIX, LINUX Languages: Java, c, asp.net, c++, scripting, Cobol, Python Reporting tools: BEX reporting, Developer 2000 Data Ware house tools: Business Ware house 3.5 Microsoft products: MS office, Microsoft Visio, PowerPoint, Word, MS Excel Networking Protocols: HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP, POP3,TLS Debugging tools: Buganizer, Jira, Confidential tools PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Sr.QA engineer Responsibilities: Created manual test cases for SFDC application Worked with different automation tools like selenium webdriver and java Worked with Jira as test management tool Worked with appium and xcode Involved extensively with Sales force applicaton. Worked with preparation of manual and automation test cases Updated daily status reports co-ordinated with developers in finding bugs and worked with different Verified different bugs and logged bugs to verify the SFDC application Designed and developed automation framework right from scratch. Confidential Sr.QA engineer Responsibilities: Analyzed business requirements and acceptance criteria on Template based adjustments and financial summary to facilitate testing. Conducted functional testing and regression testing on various builds. Worked with test plans, test scenarios, test cases for execution of existing test scripts. Worked with Jenkins in CI environment. Interactive meetings with application development team to figure out issues. Developed Java based test scripts in Eclipse for sales force pages automation. Worked with writing test plan right from scratch for sales force automation. Worked with RESTful Web service API and API testing. Worked with Rest assured as tool for doing API testing. Design and developed functional and unit tests using Data driven development. Worked with TestNG framework and written unit tests using Java. Developed functional tests and integration tests for Salesforce pages using Selenium and Java Identified test cases to automate. Automate those test cases using Selenium and Java (Eclipse IDE). Participated in project status calls. Conducted End-to End application testing, Regression and integration testing. Environment: Java, Selenium Web driver, Driver Selenium IDE, Eclipse, Java, Sales force, manual testing, REST API Confidential, Mountain View  Sr.Software engineer in test Responsibilities: Involved in testing of various tools in Confidential payments Hands on experience in using Confidential proprietary tools Worked with linux environment. Hands on experience working with Multiple projects Worked with testing Confidential payments, country specific taxation systems Worked with different languages (Chinese,sweeditsh etc) using Confidential proprietary tools to work with Confidential payments. Worked with Linux os in Confidential cloud environment. Hands on experience in debugging tools with Confidential like buganizer Worked with data base oracle in querying results in the back end Worked with Confidential payment tools for UI testing of the applications Lead the testing to deliver bug free products Environment: Linux, Confidential cloud storage, SQL, Oracle Confidential, Sunnyvale CA  Sr.Software engineer in test Responsibilities: Involved in regression testing of web applications of Confidential on various browsers and Confidential devices Extensively used Charles proxy to connect mobile ios devices to the desktops Worked with bash shell scripting in unix environment Worked with Python scripts for validating user names and passwords Worked on different builds to improve the performance of the Confidential applications. Hands on experience is testing different features of mobile devices and Mac OS environment Worked on mobile devices on different versions of IOS system 8.0 and 9.0 on iPhone 6, iPhone 6s, iPad Hands on experience with Confidential proprietary tools to perform the testing process Tracked various bugs and reported them accordingly in Confidential bug tracking system Performed sanity testing on Yosemite Operating system and Safari browsers Created bug reports and coordinated with the developers to fix them Co-ordinated with technical leads and QA leads to discuss about various issues that occurred during the testing process. Environment: Windows 8.1, IE11, Confidential chrome, Fire Fox, Yosemite O.S and Safari Confidential, Mountain View, CA  Sr.Software Engineer in test Responsibilities: Gather requirements, specifications, user documentation, preparation and documentation of test plans created by Confidential lead in chrome os project Worked with Linux os and python scripts Worked with hardware testing of various chrome laptops and android devices Consult with the Confidential development team and new test cases for new features Executed functional tests and worked and captured reports using Confidential ’s proprietary tools Worked on chrome os team on bug verification, full release test cases for different builds and versions Hands-on experience on doing regression testing on daily builds and giving QA sign off Worked with Accessibility testing using manual testing and reported the issues Coordinated with developers and design team in order to effectively change the design according to the section 508 standards. Provided training and conducted meetings within the QA team, developers and the management to provide better understanding of the section 508 to make appropriate changes in the design and codes to make the application accessible according to section 508 standards Worked on Python scripts from Confidential cloud storage. Hands on experience in adding chrome devices and modifying the scripts for changes as demanded for the new devices. Hands on experience in manual testing/mobile application testing. Testing involves Android (Mobile/applications), client server and cloud Functional testing of chrome os applications like chrome vox for web, voice over, Android application and Bug management Hands on experience working with testing accessibility features with chrome os, testing wireless Worked with adhoc testing on different chrome devices. Worked with Confidential Docs and Spread sheets for autoupdates Worked with Video and audio testing of different chromeos laptops and mobile devices and testedg Confidential specific software for these devices. Worked with multiple monitors and tested software like gmail, calendar apps, uber tray and did FSI on the devices Run Python scripts for uploading payloads for different chrome os devices. Worked on Linux operating system in access Confidential cloud storage for uploading various payloads for devices. Create bug reports and helped the development team in fixing for verifying it Performed sanity testing on chrome operating system using chrome devices and updating the progress sheets accordingly for that particular builds Tracked various bugs and help in identifying them and coordinated with the team in fixing them. Logged bugs which occurred while using chrome device using Confidential tools Co-ordinated with technical Leads and testing teams and did knowledge transfer when needed. Environment: Linux, Confidential chrome operating system, Python, Windows 8, Android mobile testing Confidential, San Francisco, CA  QE Lead Responsibilities: Gather Review requirements, specifications, user documentation to assure quality of the products and tests to be developed Select and developed appropriate automation tools, applying the latest techniques in test automation like ATDD process Worked with multiple projects of site performance and site stability Worked in agile methodology and participated in iterative development cycle, ATDD process for site performance project Worked with internal Confidential ’s tools service now, mingle for Agile methodology Analyzed user stories and acceptance criteria to develop feature files for performing regression testing and integration testing in cucumber frame work Hands on experience in preparation of Test plan for multiple projects Work with development team to capture and reuse automated test suites, test stubs and drivers and other development test objects Participated in Release review meetings giving necessary updates for the project and explained the impact of any obstacles for the projects Worked with GIT HUB and used service now which are used as Macys internal tools Performed Back end testing and executed for PL/SQL queries for site stability project Co-ordinated with developers and automation manager in working with source code by using continuous Integration tool Jenkins Worked with REST API services in back end testing with Macys server (MASS) Co-ordinate with Systems analyst, product managers, UI architects, developers and Project managers for deliverables in the site performance and site stability projects. Provide technical guidance to junior-level automation engineers of offshore automation engineering team. Environment: Ruby, Cucumber, Window 7, Linux, oracle Confidential, Pleasanton CA Sr. Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Written automated test using open source tools like cucumber and Ruby Participated in automation tool selection process for an automated testing harness in Ruby/cucumber environment Develop and execute automated tests using soap UI pro-environment Worked with XML files in soap UI pro and make the changes accordingly to the Ruby/Cucumber framework Participated in daily scrum calls Support and deploy builds in various QA environments with various settings and configurations Worked in Agile scrum methodologies. Daily interaction with various team members of the engineering team and work with scrum master and managers Environment: SOAP UI pro, Ruby, Cucumber, XML, oracle Confidential, Concord, CA  Sr. White Box QA Engineer Responsibilities: Document test summaries and GAPs Involved in analyzing Business requirements, specifications and development of Test Cases and executing & reviewing them. Performed various testing methods like Functional, Usability testing. Performed GUI Testing and Cross Browser compatibility testing during the releases and interacted with the developers to resolve any technical issues using Selenium Webdriver. Tested compatibility of application for dynamic and static content under various cross browsers using HTML IDs and Path in Selenium. Involved in Creation of Selenium scripts and creation of Test data and Script Parameterization Extensively worked on Selenium IDE, CSS Selector Property and X Path properties Extensively worked on Automation Script Configuration file Created Hybrid automation framework using Selenium Webdriver, Junit and TestNG Involved in creation of Selenium Web driver report Developed and executed White box test cases of the Java Classes using TestNG framework Hands on experience in Java based API testing for mortgage applications testing Used XML report technology in reporting the automation results. Collected feedback on Run Failures and reported bugs to Engineers in the product development team. Done cross browser testing using Confidential chrome, Internet explorer and safari Participated and supported in UAT with global testing team. Environment: Selenium 2.0.0, Selenium IDE 1.9.1, SOAPUI, Fire Bug, Java, Eclipse Confidential, Roseville, CA  Sr. White Box QA Engineer Responsibilities: Set up the environment for automation of testing. Built the framework for automation using Java, Selenium Web Driver and TestNG. Developed and executed the test scripts with Selenium Web driver and TestNG. Developed page level action or page library in Web driver to support modular automation framework. Performed data driven testing using MS Excel with Selenium Web driver and Java. Based on page library, developed Web driver test cases in JAVA using TestNG framework. Validated the XML request and response using SOAPUI Worked with developing library for data driven frame work right from scratch. Prepared a regression and functional test framework using Selenium tool. Developed and executed White box test cases of the Java classes using TestNG framework & Eclipse. Developed TestNG tests for each Java based API in the Project and verified functionality by matching expected and actual output values. Developed, maintained and conducted smoke test cases for QA environments. Designed Modular framework for functional automation using Selenium and Java. Designed and Developed Page library using Selenium and Java for functional automation. Implemented Automated execution of tests (nightly and need based) using ANT and TeamCity. Prepared test groups of Test Cases for different functionality tests and published reports using Ant. Collected feedback on Run Failures and reported bugs to Engineers in the product development team. Worked closely with cross functional teams throughout SDLC. Environment: Java, J2EE, Selenium IDE, Eclipse, Web driver, Windows 7, SVN, SOAPUI, Firebug, Http server Confidential, Richmond, Virginia Sr. Whitebox QA Engineer Responsibilities: Created test cases using Selenium, Java Created test plans, test scenarios and wrote test cases for testing various services. Performed functional testing to identify various critical points in the application and automated it by using Selenium. Did API level testing of web services, enhanced the Test Harness and developed many test suites using XML and Java Wrote test scripts with Java and also executed these test scripts Developed automated tests using Java and Selenium. Worked with selenium and Java to build and run test scripts and test scenarios Configured ANT builds scripts to run tests, develops reports and sends notifications. Used Pre-Execution checklist to verify that the environment is ready for testing. Documented the successful or unsuccessful completion of each test condition. Reported the bugs, E-mail notifications to the developers, project lead using Jira. Managed bug fixing, bug reports and component test defects using Jira. Environment: Java, J2EE, TestNG, Firebug, Firepath, selenium, Junit Confidential, Jersey City, NJ QA Engineer Responsibilities: Analyzed the user requirements, functional specifications and Use Case documents and created the Test Plans, Test cases for Functional testing. Managed, administered and redesigned Salesforce CRM and operational best practices. Performed Black Box and Unit testing using Equivalence Partitioning analysis. Used Quality Center as Test Repository for Requirements, Test plans. Involved in providing the Testing Effort estimates and provided the timely feedback on progress of the testing activity. Recorded and plays back test in Fire fox using Selenium IDE. Created Automation test framework using Selenium. Used Firebug Tool to identify the Object’s id, Name, XPath, link in the application. Exported Test Case Scripts (Java-Selenium RC) in Eclipse IDE and modified the selenium scripts and executed. Prepared automation test framework. Tests developed in Eclipse to start and to stop the selenium server and to execute the tests in browser. Run tests by using java application in Eclipse. Examine the results of test to pinpoint defects in the application. As part of compatibility testing, executed the workflow manager web application related test cases on browsers like Mozilla Fire Fox using Windows 7 Operating system. SQL Queries for backend testing Successfully Completed User Acceptance Testing (UAT) on each release of the project with the help of end user requirements. Environment: Java, Eclipse, Selenium IDE, Selenium Webdriver, SQL and Windows 7, Salesforce Confidential, Sunnyvale -CA QA Engineer RESPONSIBILITIES: Involved in creating Test Plans and documenting Test Cases to accomplish comprehensive test coverage Performed Manual testing for Facebook, twitter, My talk space and Facebook mobile apps Created user accounts for Facebook and tested for different environment conditions Developed test cases and performed User Acceptance testing, Regression testing for “call my friends” app in Facebook Reviewed functional specifications and worked to develop test cases for various conditions of the user accounts Reviewed functional specifications and worked with the development team to resolve issues Bug reporting and tracking them to completion, which involves in coordinating between the development and support group Environment: Mobile testing, Facebook, twitter, talkspace, Web environment, HTML, Internet explorer. Confidential  Technical systems Analyst  Responsibilities: Worked in co-ordination with three teams to carry on daily activities of PC/LAN systems department. Debugging and programming in the Visual basic .net environment. Worked with vb.net programming for home and auto insurance. Responsible for mobile teams to solve their issues. Deal with client situations. Hands-on experience with Unix shell scripting