SUMMARY ISTQB Certified QA Lead/QA Manager with over 12 years of experience in the field of Information Technology with specialization in Quality Assurance and Software testing. Worked on complex projects in Finance, Title Insurance, Inhouse applications Banking and Marketing industries (Mortgage back securities, Equities, Wealth Management, Portfolio Management, Investments, Insurance, Trading and Finance OMS Order Management System, Assets Management, and Compliance) and Healthcare projects. Extensive experience in testing of large client server applications, Web based applications, E - Commerce Applications and .Net Mainframe applications on various Window and UNIX Environments. Extensive experience in complete testing life cycle TLC comprising of Black Box, system, integration, database, performance, GUI, Functional, Regression, Unit testing, User Acceptance (UAT), Smoke testing and Sanity testing of both client-server, web-based applications and HOST and Distributed applications. Hands on experience with all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software Test Life Cycle (STLC) and have vast experience to Agile and Waterfall process and methodologies and exploratory testing methodology. Well conversant with software testing methodologies including developing Test plans, Test scenarios, Test cases, Test procedures, Test reports, Test estimates and documenting or publishing Test reports. Involved in developing and maintaining Test Matrix and Traceability Matrix and performing Gap Analysis. Effectively managing bug tracking, reporting reviewing and analyzing test result using HP QC, HP ALM, TFS and test execution in MTM (Microsoft Test Manager). Extensive experience in Testing, Manual and Automated using tools TFS, MTM, QTP, Load Runner, Selenium Web Driver (Java), ALM,HP Quality Center for Web and Client/Server Applications, GUI, Web Testing and Database Testing (Oracle) and validating the application against the database using SQL & PL/SQL, FIX 4 - 5.0 testing . Service level testing, API testing using SOAP UI and REST API testing using Postman. Knowledge and implementation experience of Quality Assurance, Testing Principles and Configuration, Change Management Disciplines and Software Development and Engineering. Extensive experience in Analyzing Software Requirement Specifications (SRS) and Functional requirement document (FRD) and development of Test Plans, analyzing Master Project Plan, Program Chapter. Excellent logical skills for understanding and developing system workflows and well suited for communicating with both technical and non-technical professionals. Experience with testing environments RQA, Pre Prod, Prod and DR for applications developed in .Net framework using Java, C#, Visual Basic, ASP, HTML, DHTML, XML, FIX, JavaScript, and VB Script in Relational DBMS like Oracle, SQL Server and writing SQL queries. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills with problem solving abilities, quick learner, effective in working independently and an exceptional team player. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE QA Lead Confidential Environment: .Net framework, C#, SQL Server, TFS (Team Foundation Server), MTM (MS Test Manager), API Testing using SOAP UI. Responsibilities: Leading test management activities like test planning, test case designing and hand-on test execution using various tools like TFS and MTM. Executing test scenarios around the integration testing of various arch. Nodes, API testing using SOAP UI extensively. Actively involved in the quality assurance test management tasks for 4 major applications Performing functional, integration, regression and User acceptance (UAT)/ Business acceptance (BAT) testing, API testing using SOAP UI. Performing Agile scope, Sprint planning and sprint estimation. Preparing Test Plan and templates to create test cases and test procedures. Performing service level testing at various levels including business logics using REST API tool POSTMAN to check the developed APIs meet expectations regarding the functionality, reliability, performance, and security of the application. Attending day to day meetings in the Agile environment including the daily stand-ups, Huddle meetings, elaboration sessions, defect triage and sprint planning. Project Lead - QA Confidential Environment: .Net4.5.1, C#, VB Script, UNIX, PL/SQL, SQL Server, and Microsoft Office tools, MS Access, MS Project, UFT, Jira and HP ALM, Oracle. Responsibilities: Lead the Test Project Management tasks for 4 major projects in the Wealth Management (Equities Trading major) and AML domain. 18 Team members spread onshore and offshore comprising of 3 Test Leads along with15 Test analysts. Performed functional, integration, regression and User acceptance (UAT)/ Business acceptance (BAT) testing. Performed Agile scope, Sprint planning and sprint estimation. Performed Data profiling, data mapping and Data Testing for Oracle CRR Engine. Performed build deployment using TFS and performing smoke testing. Collaboration with major stakeholders like Core Business, Developers, Business acceptance team and Technical Business Analysts (TBAs). Analyzed complex financial workflows and deriving Test plans and test strategy to perform end to end testing like Trade finance orders placement to the trade settlement and Fix message testing. Lead the Defect Triage call on daily basis with the TBAs and the Dev team to ensure the resolution of the raised defects. Provided inputs in the weekly working committee meeting on the testing progress and highlighting any showstoppers. Regular communication, prioritization and tracking of the test execution and defects and recommending corrective action whenever required. Participated in the weekly Project Schedule Timeline meeting to make sure the timelines are being met and the project progress is as per the Project Plan. Daily status meeting with the onshore and offshore testing team to discuss, analyze and resolve the challenges faced knowledge transfer and gauges the testing progress. Provided the sign off on the test execution and test completion status report along with the defect reports to the stakeholders during each code drop or shakedown phase. QA Lead Confidential Environment: Quality Center, .Net 4.0,4.5,4.5.1, Java, C#,SQL, VB Script, Shell Script, PERL Script, Java Script, UNIX, PL/SQL, SQL Server, Microsoft Office tools., Selenium Web Driver, Selenium IDE, Cloud Infrastructure support, cloud testing, Autosys, Jenkins. Responsibilities: Handled Test Management QA tasks in AGILE environment for two major MBS legacy applications of Confidential . Performed functional, integration, regression and User acceptance (UAT)/ Business acceptance (BAT) testing. Managed Functional testing of new user stories/requirements or enhancements and regression testing of existing functionalities during each QA release cycle. Data testing for data security and data integrity. Executed Autosys jobs for data sync testing between PROD and UAT. Created Test Plans, Test Cases as per the entry/exit criteria, and Test Reports for the project sprint cycles based on SRS (system requirement), FRD (functional requirement) and BRD (Business requirement) documents, Creating and maintaining complex and re-usable SQL queries. Developed and maintained the Tractability Matrix for the various sprints for both the applications. Managed the testing, documentation, defect tracking and ensuring all test artefacts adhere to testing standards and audit requirements. Created effective test cases and test scripts based upon specification documents and business user interactions. Created test scenarios based on understanding of systems in order to conduct regression testing and testing new functionality. Handled Testing Tools like HP QC, ALM, and Tectia Client (UNIX) SSH Terminal, SQL Server Management Tortoise SVN and Microsoft TFS. Collaborated on daily basis closely with Business analysts (BA), program managers, development leads, developers and production support team in Daily scrums, defect triage meetings and retrospective meetings to ensure that applications are tested to the highest quality and business requirements are met. Conducted functional gap analysis, review and validate business and functional requirements in all QA test phases such as requirements validation, integration, functional, and regression. QA Lead Confidential Environment: Project, MS SQL Server, ALM, Oracle, MS Access, IBM DB2, PL/SQL, UNIX, Selenium Web Driver, Java. Responsibilities: Worked as Deputy Scrum Master to plan for sprints, splitting user stories, release planning, monitoring burn-down, doing retrospectives, coaching team members, etc. Worked closely with the project stakeholders, to align test deliverables and ensure QA timelines are met Worked closely with the Product Owner for defining and documenting the Product Requirement Documents Reviewed and approved the Business Design Documents. Lead the Test Estimations, Test Strategy, Test Design, Execution and Test Management processes for various releases and interim release of the project. Managed and trained-knowledge transfer (KT) offshore/onshore testing team that included 8 resources by assigning the tasks and keeping track that the tasks are done by schedules for Automation and manual testing. Lead the daily bug triage meetings and performed weekly retrospective on the bugs as a quality improvement process. Responsible for organizing daily stand up calls, scrum meetings and weekly status calls and communicate status to project team, business stakeholders and management. Responsible for tracking and reporting testing activities including writing test cases, test results, test case coverage, required resources, defects discovered and their status. Coordinated functional, regression and batch test execution with QTP. Reproduced, verified, validated and assigned issues documented in a defect tracking system, and developed Test metrics, graphs, and coverage tractability matrices through the entire project life cycle. Assigned tickets from a defect tracking system to the appropriate Developer, QA Tester and Product Analyst. Consistently lead projects to on-time high quality delivery with minimal low severity defects in production. QA Lead Confidential Environment: RQM, MS SQL Server, Oracle, MS Access, PL/SQL, UNIX, TSYS., QTP, HP QC, PL/SQL,IBM Mainframe and client/server technologies. Responsibilities: Lead a team of 5 QA Test Analysts and 2 Performance Test engineers. Reviewed and developed test documentation and reporting, including Test Plans, Test Strategies, Test design, status reports, test execution status reports, requirement traceability, and test closure reports etc. Coordinated functional, regression and batch test execution with QTP Reproduced, verified, validated and assigned issues documented in a defect tracking system, and developed Test metrics, graphs, and coverage tractability matrices through the entire project life cycle. Involved in analyzing business requirements and creation of test scenarios, ensured the test scenarios are reviewed by the business and prioritization is aligned to implement the risk-based test approach during the test life cycle. Worked in compliant with CMM Level 4 to perform Test Planning, Test Execution and Defect Tracking. Worked closely with Business Users, Business Analysts and Development to clarify requirements along with business logic. Involved in writing and implementation of the test plan from functional specification document (FSD). Incorporated the Test Plan Driven Methodology to make sure a complete and comprehensive test approach is in place. Communicated with the team for better understanding of the application's requirements in terms of accurate and timely Knowledge Transfer (KT). Involved in writing Test Cases and Test Scenarios based on business and functional requirements. Managed priorities and aligned expectations between business stakeholders and developers Full responsibility and accountability for the accuracy, timeliness, generation and delivery of test scripts with the use of HP Quality Centre. Developed a detailed Test Plan for the testing effort of the User Interface (UI). Performed UML based UAT for Business Acceptance Testing. Performed manual testing in the initial phase to understand the flow of different modules of the AUT. Conducted Functional and Regression testing using QTP for checking the functionality of the application. Created batch scripts in QTP to test the Loan Locking page, Mortgage Re-Finance Page and Payments page. Conducted Test case reviews among the team members to ensure that the test cases are according to the requirements. Extensively performed Regression testing for finding any new bugs and for fixing the existing defects. Performed Database Testing for checking data validation and data integrity. Participated in weekly status meetings with project development and management teams. Reported periodic project status and updates to the QA Manager and Project Manager. Sr.QA Analyst Confidential Environment: Quality Center, TSYS, DB2, MVS, COBOL, JCL, TSO,Java, J2EE, JSP, EJB, TIBCO, SQL, VB Script, Shell Script, PERL Script, Java Script, UNIX, PL/SQL, Oracle, SQL Server, Microsoft Office tools. Responsibilities: Reviewed all the requirements (business, functional and marketing) required for the purpose of writing test plans and high-level test scenarios. Conducted manual testing for validating integration, functionality, security, and performance during the various phases of the development of the online application. Created both positive and negative scenarios and mapped the same with the requirements. Prepared the Testing Documentation and Test Data for the BMA project. Demonstrated excellent knowledge in manual and automation testing using HPQC and QTP for the testing respectively. Documented test cases corresponding to business rules and other operating conditions. Prepared test plan for GUI, Functionality, Data driven, backend and performance testing. Created test cases and test scripts for functional and Regression Testing. Involved in running the Batch jobs using JCL to ensure that the Batch processing is done effectively. Enhanced the test scripts through Check Points and Parameterization. Validated the financial information exchange (FIX) protocol FIX 4.2tags developed for real time exchange of application. Created Test scenarios and reviewed the results using the FIX Client Simulator. Performed backend testing by creating database checkpoints using QTP. Maintained and executed test cases and test scripts using Quality Center. Performed database testing using SQL Queries for data validation, and also conducted user acceptance testing (UAT) for the AUT. Extensively used Load Runner to test load on the web services application that takes XML requests and gives back response in XML form. Used Traceability Matrix to identify test cases under scope during system enhancements and change requests. Developed scripts using VuGen handling static parameterization and correlation of data values. Performed text check and image check to enhance the scripts whenever required. Created virtual users for load, volume, stress and performance testing. Extensively used performance monitor to analyze the performance of the server by generating various reports for CPU utilization, memory usage etc. Played a major role in project review meetings and in updating the bug status reports. Maintained weekly test matrix reports. Provided weekly status reports. Developed professional relationships with all levels within the IT organization. Sr.QA Analyst Confidential Environment: QTP, Load Runner, Quality Center, SQL, VB Script, Script, UNIX, PL/SQL, Oracle, SQL Responsibilities: Analyzed Design Documents and Technical Requirement Documents. Created Test Plan and Test Cases. Executed the Test Cases and documented both manual and automated Test Cases in the Quality Center. Used Quality Center for Defect Tracking and Generated Reports for testing status using MS-Excel. Managed objects in Object repository, Parameterized tests in Global and Local Data Tables and Reused actions using Quick Test Pro. Performed Functional and Regression Testing using Quick Test Professional and used Standard, Text, Bitmap, Table and Database check points. Created Standard, Text, Database and XML Output Values to retrieve values from application and reuse then in runtime in Quick Test Professional. Extensively worked on Informatica debugger to debug mappings. Tested various Performance Tuning Techniques employed to improve the session performance. Wrote the SQL queries on data staging tables and data warehouse tables to validate the data results. Design Test cases and SQL queries to validate the data pulled in from the Data Marts and populated into the reports. Attended the Regular Core Team Meetings, Weekly Status Meetings, Client Meetings, and Defects Review Meetings and co-coordinated with offshore team in testing of Datagate Services. QA Lead Confidential Environment: QTP, Load Runner, Quality Center, ASP, .Net, MS-SQL Server Responsibilities: Demonstrated excellent communication skill while participating in meetings, planning sessions, and discussions for milestones, deliverables, status reports and coordination of team schedules with business and technical stakeholders. Ensured QA Standards and Methodologies to be followed for testing. Created test plan and test strategy. Designed and documented test cases for functional and integration testing. Reviewed the test cases written for unit and integration level. Tested the Single file submission of Electronic Check Processing transactions in the same file Performed validation (checking the validity of banking route number) and verification (using multiple databases to check for negative account information) for Point of Purchase (POP) check conversion. Performed Consumer authentication (to verify consumer identity to minimize fraud losses) and Account Receivable check conversion (ARC). Generated scripts through VB Script for the cases written and created compiled modules and functions in QTP. Wrote user defined functions in Test scripts wherever necessary to test different modules of the application screens using QTP. Analyzed the detailed requirements and wrote test cases using Quality Center. Performed functional, integration, and performance testing and analyzed the test results and also tracked reported bugs in trouble ticket database. Extensively written and executed SQL queries to verify the data in the database. Developed test cases and scripts to do performance testing of the application using Load Runner and simulated peak load conditions by creating virtual users. Communicated with Business Owners and involved in User Acceptance Testing. Logged and tracked the defects occurred in the application under test in Quality Center. Sr.QA Analyst Confidential Environment: Quick Test Professional, Quality Center, VB Script, Java Script, SQL Server, UNIX, and LINUX, XML. Responsibilities: Reviewed and analyzed BRD business requirements document. Participated in requirements and functional design documentation reviews Participated and contributed to design meetings and implementation of the unit. Conducted Functional, Integration, Load and Performance Testing. Conducted regression testing and backward compatibility after bug fix completion. Prepared different test scenarios to help QA team to conduct testing on the application Conducted automation testing by preparing test scripts using QuickTestProfessional. Verified data in database using database check points. Automation scripts were prepared for regression and backward compatibility validation. Conducted performance testing with multi users. Checked Log files using UNIX commands in order to check the FIX tags. FIX tags were verified after orders sent to and received from the exchange using FIX Client Simulator (B2Bits) and FIX engine FIX Antenna using .NET environment for testing. Initiated, edited, accepted and rejected various FIX 4.2 sessions as part of the testing process in the controlled testing environment for the portfolio management tool. Used FIX Data dictionaries like FiXimate FIX interactive & Tag Explorer V 3.1.4 for Tag validation of the FIX sessions. Involved in Baseline, Regression, GUI, Functional, and Performance testing. Used Portfolio Trading Application to send a batch of orders and verified the Order status in a series of downstream systems. Verified and validated the FIX sessions using test scenarios between the FIX engines of both sell and buy side and message processing to the Order Management Systems (OMS). Sr.QA Analyst Confidential Environment: XML, Rational Suite, QTP, Quality Center, Visual Basic, SQL Server and UNIX. Responsibilities: Reviewed various documents like system requirement specifications, design documents and business requirements. Prepared Test Plan and templates to create test cases and test procedures using the CMM / SEI framework. Ability to use cases into test scenarios based on functional requirements document and design requirement documents. Prepared data for database testing in line with test scenarios. Involved in manual and automation testing using QTP and Quality Center. Identified the high-risk points and the priorities of the application. Conducted internal and external walk-through for test plan and test cases. Participated in the defect review meetings with development and business teams. Coordinated with Development team for Defect analysis. Tested the application compatibility in different browsers like Netscape Navigator, Internet Explorer and AOL. Analyzed user requirements attended Change Request meetings to document changes and implemented procedures to test changes. Verification of the check points like database check points, Bitmap checkpoints and GUI check points. QA Analyst Confidential Environment: Quality Center, Load Runner, Java, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, XML, Oracle, SQL, UNIX Responsibilities: Responsible for analyzing business requirements in order to execute test plan. Developed test cases for functional, Integration, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Worked closely with Developers, Business Analysts, and User Representatives and participate in the product design process including specification and other document reviewing. Extensively worked on SQL queries using DDL, DML commands for performing backend testing. Developed automated test scripts using QTP and created various checkpoints like Standard, Image, Table and Bitmap in QTP. Utilized Quality Center for reporting Defects, planning and developing test cases. Used Quality Center for organizing and analyzing the Requirements and Test Plan. Extensively used Quality Center to store and execute the QTP Scripts and for defect tracking. Enhanced vusers scripts by correlation, parameterization, transaction points, rendezvous points and various Load Runner functions. Monitored software and hardware behaviour during test run using Load Runner Analysis graphs. Validated user scripts through text-check and web-image check points in Load Runner. Actively participated in Load testing, Stress testing using Load Runner.