SUMMARY Over 7 years of IT experience with an emphasis on Software Quality Assurance in both automated and manual testing on web - based and client-server applications. Experienced in all phases of the Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) starting from developing Test Plan, Test Strategy, Test Cases, execution of testing and writing effective Testing Summary Reports and Defect Reports. Proficient in different forms of testing like Manual Testing, Unit testing, Integration testing, Regression testing, Performance testing, and Non-functional testing. Worked extensively on performing Black Box Testing, System Testing, Smoke Testing, Regression Testing, and User Acceptance Testing. Experience in writing and executing SQL queries to perform data validation and back end testing of databases to check the integrity of data. Good understanding of Object-Oriented Programming concepts. Experienced in writing test scripts using JAVA, and executed it through Selenium WebDriver for Functional and Regression testing. Created and maintained automation framework in Selenium WebDriver, JUnit, TestNG and NUnit using behavior-driven approaches (BDD) such as Cucumber. Strong experience in functional and UAT testing using Selenium Web Driver on both platforms as well as cross platform web testing on all major web browsers (Safari, Google Chrome, Firefox and IE). Experienced with testing various web API and Web Services such as REST and SOAP using tools like POSTMAN, HTTP client instances, and SOAP UI and validated the responses in XML and JSON. Excellent knowledge of using various IDEs like Visual Studio, IntelliJ, Eclipse and SSMS. Experience with defect tracking and analysis using different defect tracking tools such as Jira and Quality Center (QC). Experienced using Jenkins Automation Server tool for scheduling jobs, testing and reporting on isolated changes. Working experience with Maven build tool to build and manage Java-based project. Experienced in Database Testing using SQL queries on RDBMS databases like SQL Server, and MS Access. Excellent Communication skills, Documentation Skills, Team problem solving ability, analytical and programming skills in high speed and quality conscious. Ability to learn new concepts and applications quickly and ability to work in short schedules and on different applications concurrently. TECHNICAL SKILLS Tools: JIRA, Selenium, NUnit, TestNG, Specflow, Cucumber, Postman, SOAPUI RDBMS:  SQL Server, and MS Access Web Development:  HTML, XML Languages:  Java, Python, HTML Powershell, SQL. Browsers:  Google Chrome, Firefox, IE Other Tools:  Azure, Maven, SourceTree, Bitbucket, GIT, MTM Methodologies:  Agile, Waterfall PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Omaha, NE Automation Tester / SDET Responsibilities: Extensively involved in all stages of testing life cycle, Test Driven Development methodologies and Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) using Agile, Scrum methodologies. Involved in planning, designing and executing different test cases for Smoke, Functional, Integration, System and User Acceptance and GUI testing. Developed Test Plan and Test Cases for REST API/Web Services testing using Postman. Designed and developed automated scripts for functional, regression, sanity and integration testing using automation tool Selenium with Java. Builtautomationscripts using Data driven Framework and TestNG Framework and conducted usingSelenium with Java. Performed back end testing by writing and executing SQL queries to validate that data is being populated in appropriate tables and manually verified the correctness of the data with front-end values. Wrote SQL queries to retrieve the information from the databases to check whether the data has been updated. Developed new and updated existing Automation test cases using Selenium WebDriver and TestNG, using Bitbucket (GIT) as version control system for Java based application, using Maven as build tool and Continuous Integration tools Jenkins for nightly batch run of the scripts Involved in Web Application GUI automation creating regression suites using Selenium Webdriver, TestNG, and Eclipse. Created and maintained Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) to ensure all the requirements are covered. Define, develop, and execute automation test scripts using Java that leverage black and white box testing across functional, non-functional and performance testing. Developed Selenium scripts in TestNG for parameterization using Data Provider annotation. Established and maintained test cases and test data in JIRA Used JIRA to maintained defect repository and followed the bug life cycle until the bugs are fixed or closed. Verified that the Software Quality Assurance Standards are met throughout all phases of development. Environment: Java, Jenkins, Agile, JIRA, PL/ SQL, MS SQL, POSTMAN, Oracle, Selenium Web Driver, Selenium IDE, JIRA, TestNG. Confidential, Chicago, IL QA Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Heavily involved in planning, designing and executing different test cases for Smoke, Functional, Integration, System and User Acceptance and GUI testing. Actively followed Agile Methodology for all the phases of SDLC and interacted with Lead,Business Analyst, Developers and other QA Members during Daily Stand-Up Meeting. Performed Data driven testing using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG functions and JDBC Connections which read data from scripts using property and XML files. Performed User Acceptance Testing (UAT) on each release of the project with the help of end user requirements. Define, develop, and execute automation test scripts using Java that leverage black and white box testing across functional, non-functional and performance testing. Implemented automation using Selenium WebDriver, JAVA, TestNG, Selenium Grid, Cucumber, Maven. Used JIRA to track defects/bugs and issues and managed them. Involved in Web Application GUI automation creating regression suites using Selenium Webdriver, TestNG, and Eclipse. Maintained Selenium and Java automation code and resources in the GitHub source control. Used Maven Performed continuous integration of code and scripts using Jenkins. Excel reports are validated using SQL and embodying complex formulas in Excel. Developed Selenium scripts in TestNG for parameterization using Data Provider annotation. Performed Assertions like Schema Compliance, XPath and SOAP responses. Extensively involved in testing the ETL process from different data sources (SQL Server, Oracle, flat files) into the target Oracle database as per the data models. Environment: Java, Selenium Web Driver, Cucumber, TestNG, SQL Assistant, SQL, SharePoint, Web Logic, Oracle, TOAD, Flat files Confidential, Wilmington, DE Automation Tester Responsibilities: Extensively reviewed Project Artifacts, analyzed Requirements, designed the test plan and provided weekly status report that includes testing metrics, test logs and test summary reports. Worked in a highly dynamic AGILE environment and participated in scrum and sprint meetings. Participated in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC). Actively participated in BDD (Behavior Driven Development) approach using Cucumber. Used POSTMAN to manually test Rest Web Services and APIs. Used SOAPUI tool to test web services and APIs. Tested applications build on Python and JAVA. Worked with the Web programming language HTML5, CSS3, XML and selected web element by using Firebug and FirePath. Extensively used SQL statements to query the Oracle Database(RDBMS) for Data Validation and Data Integrity Builtautomationscripts using Data driven Framework and TestNG Framework and conducted usingSelenium with Java. Used Maven to execute Selenium automation suites on different platform, browser combinations in parallel. Build automated frameworks using Selenium WebDriver and JAVA programing language. Used Jira to open bugs, create tasks and user stories, and initiate change requests. Environment: AGILE, Jira, Java, BDD, SQL, SQL Server, SOAPUI, Selenium Webdriver, Cucumber, TestNG Confidential, Dallas, TX Automation Tester Responsibilities: Involved in analyzing the requirements document to formulate the test cases and conducted manual testing for the entire application. Worked as QA for performing API launches, white box testing, data testing.Tested and analyzed SQL queries and XML code to validate data and database mappings. Developed high level test plan document along with the test specification document outlining various iterations and regression testing needed for the project. Participated in deployments and upgrades of the application. Participated in daily Scrum meetings. Attended periodic meetings with the development team and with the business analysts to provide feedback. Created test sets and execute those test cases in the Test lab module of (Quality Center) QC to make sure actual result is same as the expected result. Performed Smoke testing, Black box Testing, Security Testing, web testing and GUI testing. Logged Defects in Defect module of the QC, assigned priority, Severity and status to the defect. Worked Extensively with Business Analyst and Developers to discuss the defects and their fixes. Participated in defect review meetings with the team members, provided written status reports of testing. Environment: SQL, Quality Center, Agile, Smoke Testing, Black Box Testing, Web testing, GUI Testing, MS SQL Server, Windows 2007, MS Office, SharePoint 