SUMMARY Around 12 years of professional experience in Software Testing as Software Quality Assurance Engineer on different platforms and environments Experience in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), in - depth knowledge of contemporary QA/test principles, methodologies. Efficient in analyzing System Requirements, Use Cases and other documents to gain overall understanding of the new application to determine the appropriate level of testing required and designing end-to-end testing framework that supports both manual and automated. Extensively Worked in Quality Assurance using Testing methods for both Manual and Automation tests with all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in Requirements gathering (FSD/SRS). Experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing, and Production & Maintenance Methods using Waterfall, CMM, and Agile/Scrum. Used Soap UI to test Webservices (SOA). Working knowledge of SQL, HTML and XML and internet browsers. Adept at developing automated test scripts using Load Runner, Quick Test Pro, Quality Center. Good experience in creating, modifying and enhancing both manual Test cases and Test Scripts created in Selenium Webdriver. Good experience in developing the scripts in Webdriver with Junit,Fitness,and Testing using java. Experienced in developing and maintaining Test Plans, Test Scripts and Test Cases, Defect Tracking, and Report Generation. Expertise in Unit Testing, Integration Testing, GUI testing, Functional testing, System testing, Regression Testing, User Acceptance testing, end-to-end testing and Black Box testing methodologies. Experience in writing and executing SQL queries to perform Data Validation and Back end testing of databases to check the integrity of data. Produce proactive reports, trending analysis, service level reporting, process consultation and application of ITIL best practice. Service Catalog/Change/Incident/Problem/Service Level Management Implementation in Service Now. Knowledge of IT Service Management (ITSM) frameworks Experience with data analysis, analyzing, documenting business requirements and data specifications Experience in creating the Requirement traceability matrix and performing the corresponding analysis. Experience in coordinating testing efforts with the offshore teams. Excellent communications skills, strong problems solving skills and a good team player. Ability to meet deadlines and handle pressure and co-ordinate multiple tasks in a work / project environment. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing Tools:  UFT 11.0,HP ALM 11.0, Quick Test Pro 10.0,9.5/9.2/8.2, RFT, Test Director 8.0/7.6, Quality Center 8.2,9.0, 9.2,9.5, Clear Quest, Winrunner7.0/6.0, Load Runner 8.0/7.8. Platforms:  MS-DOS, Windows 95/98/2000/NT/XP, UNIX Languages:  C, C++, Java, VB Script, Visual Basic, .Net, SQL, PL/SQLInternet Technologies VBScript, JavaScript, XML, HTML Database Technologies:  Oracle 8i/9i, MS-SQL Server 2000 Others:  MS-Word, MS Excel, PowerPoint PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Norfolk, GA Sr.QA Analyst Responsibilities: Written and maintained test plans, test scenarios and test cases based on specifications and requirements. Executed manual tests and identified, communicated, and documented discrepancies encountered during the testing process. Created, reviewed, and updated software defects in defect tracking tools. Involved in Sprint review meetings and backlogs meeting. Involved in giving demos for each sprint. Providing daily status and report to client on day to day basis. Used JIRA to understand the stories and track the hours spent on each task in JIRA. Worked in Agile based methodology. Automation of Rest Services using SOAPUI and POSTMAN Utilize knowledge of Java to create automation test scripts. Recorded and play back test in Fire fox using Selenium IDE. Used Firebug Tool to identify the Object’s id, Name, XPath, link in the application. Added annotations to the test Selenium Tests developed in Eclipse to start and to stop the selenium server and to execute the tests in browser. Run tests by using Selenium remote control in different browsers. Examine the results of test to pinpoint defects in the application. As part of compatibility testing, executed the workflow manager web application related test cases on different browsers like Internet Explorer and Mozilla Fire Fox on different Operating Systems.(validation) Environment: JIRA,Excel,Javascript, SOAPUI, Rest Services, Selenium IDE, Selenium RC, Web driver,Sql Developer Confidential, Atlanta, GA Sr.QA Analyst Responsibilities: Written and maintained test plans, test scenarios and test cases based on specifications and requirements. Executed manual tests and identified, communicated, and documented discrepancies encountered during the testing process. Created, reviewed, and updated software defects in defect tracking tools. Created automation scripts using HP UFT tool. Executed and maintained automated test scripts using UFT and HP ALM Involved in Sprint review meetings and backlogs meeting. Involved in giving demos for each sprint. Providing daily status and report to client on day to day basis. Used Rally to understand the stories and track the hours spent on each task in the rally. Worked in Agile based methodology. Automation of Rest Services using SOAPUI and POSTMAN Automated functional, GUI and Regression testing by creating scripts in UFT. Developed, modified and debugged scripts in Automation frame work using UFT for future release Examine the results of test to pinpoint defects in the application. As part of compatibility testing, executed the workflow manager web application related test cases on different browsers like Internet Explorer and Mozilla Fire Fox on different Operating Systems.(validation) Expertise in advanced descriptive programming in UFT using VBScript. Used Recovery Scenario Wizard for recovery management. Involved in creation of object repository, function libraries for automation Environment: HP ALM 11.5, UFT 11.5, Rally, Excel, SOAPUI, Rest Services Confidential, Atlanta, GA Test Lead Responsibilities: Worked as a Test Lead coordinating onshore and off-shore team. Worked on HP ALM to write test cases and execute them Involved in creation of test plan, test scenarios, test cases, Observation Summary Report and Test Execution Summary Report. Worked in Agile based methodology and worked in sprint to sprint. Attended Daily Scrum Meetings and provided with the status of each day. Tested Web Services and validated XML Data. Useddata-driventesting and database accessing techniques during automation scripts development Created and maintained automated tests usingQTPby coding inVB Script. Developed custom QTP function libraries (likeObject Oriented Functions,Database Functions, and Utilities etc). These functions are application independent and platform independent that can be used across multiple projects. Developed a comprehensiveAutomation Regression Suitethat is executed at the end of each sprint Involved in Sprint review meetings and backlogs meeting. Involved in giving demos for each sprint. Providing daily status report to client on day to day basis. Used Rally to understand the stories and track the hours spent on each task in the rally Environment: Quality Center ALM 11.0, Quick Test Professional 11.0, Oracle 10g,VB.Net,Web Services,XML,Rally,SqlServer Confidential, Columbus, Ohio Sr. Automation Tester Responsibilities: Interpret application architectures and identify areas for automation. Actively involved in automating test cases using QTP Performeddata-driven testingby developing data-driven tests to validate the same test with multiple sets of test data. Developed complex VB Script Functions and Keywords as part of automation framework. Used Selenium for Cross browser testing. Worked on HP ALM to write manual test cases and execute them Worked on an inbuilt automation framework called "Effecta". Worked in Agile based environment working from sprint to sprint Involved in Understanding stories in each sprint and creating scenarios in each sprint. Involved in Sprint review meetings and backlogs meeting. Involved in giving demos for each sprint. Providing daily status report to client on day to day basis. Used Rally to understand the stories and track the hours spent on each task in the rally Recorded and plays back test in Fire fox using Selenium IDE Run tests by using Selenium remote control in different browsers Design and implement the best practices and ensure that new code uses our framework and coding practices Execution of smoke tests on each build using QTP and reporting the results to management Performedintegration testing & data validationsusingQTPfor various interfaces. Performed database testing to test data migration from different test environments. Developed utility scripts in QTP to export data from different database tables to Excel. Developed workarounds for many ofQTP challengesby writing VB Script functions using "Effecta"automation framework Used "JIRA"to manage projects Environment: Quality Center ALM 11.0, Quick Test Professional 11.0, Oracle 10g, ASP.NET,HTML, C++, VB script, Effecta, Excel, Rally, JIRA, Selenium IDE, Selenium RC, Web driver Confidential, Thousand Oaks Sr. QA Analyst Responsibilities: Attended the review meetings of functional and technical specs with developers and Account Managers. Formulated Test Plan that contains test scenarios for testing the Functional, System, Integration and Regression Testing. Written test cases for Web based testing. Tested functionality and performance of web services. Involved in Backend Web services testing. Developed test requirements and test plans for comprehensive testing of back-end systems like Web Services. Worked on HP ALM to write test cases and execute them Created UI Actions, UI Policies. Performed Import Export of data sets from Dev to other environments Created custom tables, based on business needs. Participated in daily scrum meeting and developer meetings. Service Catalog/Change/Incident/Service Level Management Implementation. Validated Service Catalog/Change/Incident/Service Level Management in ServiceNow Performed Onsite Coordinator for the offshore resources team in India and Onsite team. This role involved extensive daily assignment and management of tasks to the Offshore/Onsite resources. Environment: Quality Center 10.0, MS Office, Excel, Visio, MS Project, MS PowerPoint, SharePoint, Microsoft CRM 2011, Informatica, Office 365, SQL, ServiceNow Confidential, Los Angeles Sr. QA Analyst Responsibilities: Attended the review meetings of functional and technical specs with developers and Account Managers. Formulated Test Plan that contains test scenarios for testing the Functional, System, Integration and Regression Testing. Worked closely with the QA Lead in co-ordination and Implementation of the QA methodologies/QA processed and generating Test Scenarios. Developed test requirements and test plans for comprehensive testing of back-end systems like Web Services. Tested SAAS application for different clients such as Confidential, Fannie Mae and JP Morgan Chase. Involved in writing manual Test cases for REOTRANs Application Involved in Automation of ReoTrans Application. Used Selenium for automation Testing Developed scripts using Javascript language Participated in Integration,System,Smoke and User Acceptance Testing and production testing using Selenium IDE Analyze input and output of test data and identified discrepancies between requirements and expected results. Involved in the compatibility testing of the application with different browsers and Operating Systems. Logging Defects in Company’s Internal Bug Tracking tool, MKS. Actively participated in daily bug scrums, reviews and walkthroughs. Used "TrackStudio"to track the progess of each project Maintained Traceability Matrix for latest test results information and matching requirements to Test Cases. Generate Reports using ALM (Application Lifecycle Management)/QC at the time of execution and releases. Worked closely with developers in "War-rooms"to fix any issues occured during testing Collaborated with offshore developers and QA Worked with different account managers to understand the functiionalities better. Environment: HP ALM, Sql Developer, MKS, TrackStrudio, Coldfusion, Selenium, SAAS, Javascript Confidential, Los Angeles, CA Sr.QA Analyst /Sr. Automation Tester Responsibilities: Involved in the creation of test-plan and test cases. Involved in Batch-processing using Autosys. Used Autosys to schedule the jobs on a daily, nightly and weekly basis. Used"Putty" to execute UNIX commands and verify logs Used Microsoft Visio to design the flow of jobs. Define a number of test cases using quality data end-to-end business processes during the UAT and validated the system set up for transactions and user access in UAT. Involved in Creation of test plan, reports. Worked closely with BAs and developers to better understand the functionalities. Attend meetings with BAs and client managers to gather documents to write test cases. Extensive involved in writing complex sql queries. Involved in extensive Data Validation using SQL queries in Oracle,Sql Sever and Sybase Databases Tested the front-end trading application known as "Charles River Development"application. Involved in validating data for different Hedge fund clients (such as JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs etc) by writing complex Sql queries. Tested the brokerage and financial services applications like Equities, Fixed Income, Investment Research, Bonds, Stocks, Options, Capital Markets, Investment Deposits, Accounts (Accounts Activity, Balance & Holdings, and Portfolio Management), E-statements, Retail Consumer Lending, Mortgage Modules and Integration Modules. Participated in Test Plan walkthroughs for test case approval with Business Analyst Manager and Development Lead Performed the White box and Black Box testing. Tested and Debugged the code during white box testing. Used Bugzilla as a defect tracking tool Design, implement and maintain the QA Automation Hybrid framework using QTP and developed VB scripts in QTP. Utilized Excel to maintain test cases and test scripts. Automated functional, GUI and Regression testing by creating scripts in QTP 10.0 Worked on OOPS concept for automating the functionalities of the application.. Involved in preparing Requirement Traceable Matrix (RTM) and Test Sets in HP Quality Center 9.2. Executed smoke Testing to test the main features of the application as and when required. Environment: Quality Center 9.2, QTP10.0, Sql Developer, .Net, Excel, Bugzilla, SQL, Oracle 10g, Autosys, JavaScript, Microsoft Visio, VBscript, CRD, Sybase Confidential, Wakefield, MA Sr.QA Analyst /Sr. Automation tester Responsibilities: Utilized Excel to maintain test cases and test scripts. Work closely with Test Lead to meet deadlines on time. Involved in testing front-end " Confidential Sales Tax Calculation" Application for different retail clients in different states. Involved in extensive Data Validation using SQL queries. Involved in validating data for different clients (such as Target, Walmart, marshalls etc) by writing complex Sql queries. Used Selenium for Cross browser Testing. Used Javascript for automation with selenium Prepared Quality assurance metrics, defect reports and reviewed with the QA team. Involved in preparing Requirement Traceable Matrix (RTM) and Test Sets in Quality Center.. Reviewed Business Requirements with Business Analysts and Developers. Developed VBA scripts using Macros to verify data in the EXCEL sheet. Using TOAD tool, prepared SQL queries and verified the data in the oracle database Involved in preparing Requirement Traceable Matrix (RTM) and Test Sets in HP Quality Center 9.2. Strong hands-on experience in maintaining and using IBM Rational Clear Quest for Defect reporting, tracking & Change Management. Involved in writing automation scripts by using an inbuilt hybrid automation framework called as "CRAFT" Automated functional, GUI and Regression testing by creating scripts in QTP. Developed, modified and debugged scripts in Automation frame work using QTP for future release Expertise in advanced descriptive programming in QTP using VBScript. Used Recovery Scenario Wizard for recovery management. Involved in creation of object repository, function libraries for automation. Environment: Quality Center 9.2, QTP10.0, Toad, Excel, Rational Clear Quest, .Net, Selenium, Oracle 10g, Javascript Confidential, NY Sr. QA Analyst Responsibilities: Used waterfall methodology as part of SDLC. Developed QA Test plan from technical specifications and requirements for this project. Tested entire functionality of the application on different browsers like IE, Netscape, Safari Used Quality Center for bug tracking and reporting, also followed up with development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status. Exported Test Cases from MS Excel and Requirements from MS Word to Quality Center Worked on Brokerage Application. Also performed User Acceptance Testing (UAT) on all the Trading Apps. Tested Options Price Reporting Authority (OPRA) tool for options security trading through Market Data Vendors, last sale information and current options. Prepared comprehensive Test Plan for Cash Wire and Key Rep application. Tested Corporate Actions application Conducted integration testing for several modules for Cash Wire Application. Tested Custody Systems i.e. Cash Wire, Journal and SWIFT messages dealing with Payments, Receives and FX. Tested application with financial derivatives such as Equity, Fixed income, Mutual funds,Bonds,Stocks,Capital Markets Tested a hedging application which allowed hedging from one currency to another currency. Involved in the creation of test cases and test scripts for testing the CashWire Application Involved in various testing investment securities like Equity, Fixed income, Mutual funds. Established the Automation Framework using a modular foundation of generic functions and libraries. Worked on both Expert view and Keyword view in QTP. Used Parameterization for using various data to test the application using QTP. Performed Negative testing to find how the functions and variables perform when they encounters invalid and unexpected values. Actively involved in black box, white box, negative testing of the application. Performed Regression testing on the successive releases. Involved in testing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) application. Used SOAPUI to test Webservices. Involved in Backend Web services Testing Used Load runner to test the load on the application Used VBScript heavily for writing the automation test scripts. Developed, modified and debugged scripts in Automation frame work using QTP for future release. Modifying and creating SQL queries and stored procedures for quality assurance and analysis. Verify the files in the specific landing directory in UNIX. Executed smoke Testing to test the main features of the application as and when required. Environment: Quality Center 9.2, QTP 9.2, Load Runner 9.0, Excel, MS Word, Java Script,, XML, VB Script, ASP.Net, UNIX, Rational Clear Quest. Windows, SOAPUI, Oracle 9i Confidential, Dallas, TX Sr. Automation Tester Responsibilities: Interacted with Business Analysts, Developers and End-Users to design detailed test plan document for application testing. Analyzed functional specifications from the front-end application with reference to requirement documents. Set up the Hybrid Automation Framework for QTP Tested the brokerage and financial services applications like Equities, Fixed Income, Investment Research, Investment Deposits, Accounts (Accounts Activity, Balance & Holdings, and Portfolio Management), E-statements, Retail Consumer Lending, Mortgage Modules and Integration Modules. Tested Corporate Actions application. Tested online Banking frontend application with transactions involving with checking accounts, Credit Cards and Auto Loans. Extensively used Quality Center to upload requirements, write test cases. Performed manual testing executing all the test cases in Quality Center before switching to automation testing. Reported defects using Quality Center Verified fixes and closed bugs during regression testing. Used Quality Center to Report, track and, monitor defects. Produced Requirements Traceability Matrix to support the application development. Integrating QTP with Quality Center, Creating custom reports from Quality Center Database. Wrote complex sql queries to do backend testing Environment: Quality Center9.2, QTP 9.2, VB Script, UNIX, .Net, Windows 2000, Windows, SQL, Server, Microsoft Excel. 