SUMMARY Holding 5+ years of extensive experience in Analyzing, Designing and Implementation of QA testing for Web based and Client/Server applications using manual testing and Automation testing Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Defect life cycle management and different methodologies like Waterfall, Agile, and Scrum, Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC). Experienced with various types of testing like GUI testing, Web testing, Regression testing, User Acceptance Testing, System Testing, Integration Testing, End to End Testing, Unit Testing. Experience in testing native applications on iPhone, Android and iPod devices (Manual & Automation). Expertise in creating User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Interacting with Business Owners for validations. Experience in working with Application Servers, Database Servers and Mainframes systems. Proficient in using locators like CSS, XPath and DOM for locating the elements in Selenium, SAHI. Good working experience in automation tools like Selenium Web driver, Selenium RC, selenium IDE, Grid and QTP (Quick Test Professional), Appium to develop automation testing scripts for web, Mobile and client server applications. Experience in analyzing ETL mapping documents and creating SQL scripts based on ETL mapping documents to compare data outputs. Mobile Testing with Appium, Profecto. Developed automation test cases, executed these test scripts from test lab and logged defects in JIRA/ALM. Ability to generate crash reports and report it to developers for Error Debugging. Worked on multiple projects and extensively involved in User Acceptance testing (UAT), End to End, Sanity Testing, Functional Testing, Regression Testing, Validation testing, Performance Testing, black box, white box and Cross - Browser testing. Experience in Mobile Testing using Appium for Android and IOS devices. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing methods: Waterfall, Agile Methodology(Scrum) Testing Tools: Selenium IDE, Selenium WebDriver, Unified Functional Testing (QTP), SoapUI, Appium (iOS/Android) Test Management Tools: HP ALM/ Quality Center, JIRA. Programming Languages: Java, C/C++, VB Script, SQL, HTML, XML, JavaScript. Database Management Systems: Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, MS Access, Toad Operating Systems: Windows, MAC OS, UNIX, LINUX, Android. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Irving TX Automation Tester Responsibilities: Primary responsibilities included running through tests manually, and also leveraging automated test tools (Visual Studio with Selenium). Used Selenium IDE and Firebug to identify element locator. Developed Modular Framework for Selenium Scripts. Developed Selenium RC Scripts using Java and TestNG. Used Selenium IDE and Firebug for identifying element locators. Execute Test cases usingSeleniumandJava. Developed Selenium RC Scripts using java and Junit covering all requirements for enhancements. Created Selenium Test cases with Junit Test case frame work using page library. Developed ANT scripts to automate Build Process for running Regression Scripts. Used Selenium Grid to run tests on multiple platforms in parallel. Used Selenium IDE for Open source web testing. Worked on Designing and executing the automation scripts using Selenium. Experience using Selenium WebDriver to drive web UI tests. Performed Build Acceptance Testing (Smoke Test) for every build release to QA using Selenium Scripts. Coordinated with technical support associates to fix proprietary software issues. Created manual test cases, reviewed with different stakeholders to validate the functionality. Attend the BRI (Business Requirement Identification) meeting to understand the business Requirements. Edited and debug tests using Selenium Participated in meeting, teleconferences walk through with the development team, QA manager and Project manager (PM). Developed Test Plans and Test Cases, Test Scripts to perform Functionality, Integration, System Testing and Regression Testing. Performed Smoke, Functional, Integration, System, End-to-End, Regression, and User Acceptance Test (UAT) Testing of Web-based and JAVA applications. Involved in Batch/Interface testing with interface partners like MMIS, KDOL, AVS, LIS, DDS, SSA etc. to get the accurate response regarding eligibility determination Extensively used Batch Job tools including JENKINS/ Control M Automation Workload Tool to run the batch jobs (Run, Hold, Schedule the Batch Jobs and Monitor batch jobs) Used Rational Clear quest to log and track the defect. Performed database/backend testing using SQL queries. Work as a team lead for Reviews Module as an Accenture counterpart to test the all the business functionality as per the requirement. Maintain execution/defect tracking sheet up-to date to have a clear picture. Environment: Eclipse IDE, Selenium Web Driver, HP ALM, Perfecto, Appium, JIRA, data migration, SOAPUI, WSDL, XML, Agile, Rest API, Java, MVC, SOAP UI, Quality Center, Firebug, Firepath, XPATH,XML,DOM,SVN, Internet Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, SQL and Windows. Confidential, Dallas, TX Automation Tester Responsibilities: Interacted with Business Analyst and Developers to understand the application architecture and recommend testing strategy. Worked on Selenium GUI Object / element verification is done through XPath, CSS Locators. Developed test scripts to automate the process of testing in Selenium WebDriver. Setup and Configured the testing environment with Eclipse IDE, JUNIT and Selenium Web driver. Created test automation framework using Selenium Web Driver, Data Drive Framework for further test creation and execution. Performed Mobile Automation Testing on IOS platforms using iPhone & iPad Devices with Appium. Implemented mobile automation framework using APPIUM and developed automation test scripts to test IOS and Android platforms. Used Emulators and Simulators to test the application virtually. Performed Acceptance testing and UI functional testing using Perfecto with extension of Appium and Java/C/C++ as scripting language. Created custom XML Assertors to validate SOAP (WSDL) and REST API calls, and Data Banks to store and analyze data input/output and error logs. Developed and executed SQL queries in the database to conduct Data integrity testing by checking the data tables on the server. Developed BDD tests using Cucumber by writing features and developed required Selenium support code in C/C#. Performed stress test on data migration from SQL database. Performed defect reporting and bug tracking using JIRA also followed up with development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status. Automation of Rest Services using SOA concepts. Performed load testing - used thread Groups, samplers, listeners to calculate the average response time. Environment: Eclipse IDE, Selenium Web Driver, HP ALM, Perfecto, Appium, JIRA, data migration, SOAPUI, WSDL, XML, Agile, Rest API. Confidential, Chicago, IL QA analyst Responsibilities: Performed Functional, Negative, Positive, Integration, Regression, End to End and User Acceptance Testing. Provide comprehensive testing of photo sharing application on WEB and Mobile platforms at all the stages of software development and software testing life cycle Extensively involved in writing and designing templates for the Test Plans and Test cases Identified the Test Cases and documented them in Quality Center. Worked with the Developers and the Test Lead to verify the Test Cases. Experience in Unit, Integration, System Testing using different devices(Iphone, Ipad, Ipod,Web based applications) Designed and Analyzed Test case design document basing on the Functional Requirement Specifications to implement through testing process. Execute Browser Compatibility Testing(IE, Firefox, Chrome, Safari) of a Web based application Test various mobile devices with a various platform(iOS, Android) Analyzed and Developed Test Plan, Test Cases, Test Scripts, Expected Test Results and Test Procedure from functional requirement for different modules in SAP Involved in creating the Traceability matrix based on Functional requirement in each module. Base-line and Regression tests were scheduled and performed on every Release and build. Creation of Test Data for Member data’s according to the scenarios. Loaded the Test Data into the HP-QC to prepare for the execution of Test Cases Implemented handset automation framework, scripting and execution Sanity, Regression, Stress and Boundary test cases for mobile applications using Device Anywhere Automation Tool. Performed defect reporting and bug tracking using JIRA also followed up with development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status. Environment: s: Eclipse IDE, Agile, Selenium RC/Web Driver/Grid with Java, APPIUM, HP ALM, SOAP UI, HTML, MS Office, Microsoft Excel, MS Word, Internet Explorer, Microsoft outlook, PowerPoint, Android, IOS Confidential QA Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in interacting with the project development team to understand the project requirement. Participate in the automation feasibility analysis for new systems/applications. Executed manual test cases and identified the test cases to be automated. Involved in Preparation, Reviewing and Execution of test case. Develop the user defined functions for automation scenarios. Enhanced the scripts by adding user-defined functions. Updating and maintaining the automation test script for every release. Tested various menus, options and utilities and Executed VB Scripts developed in QTP/UFT. Experience in Descriptive Programming using QTP/UFT. Worked on the high-level framework, identifying the functional areas and created different functions to make the scripts reusable in Quick Test Professional. Prepared Test Cases for GUI application. Developed test scripts for Data driven testing using parameterization in QTP/UFT by using Excel sheet for test data and Database Queries based on the functionality. Prepared test scripts using Quick Test Professional with checkpoints using regular expressions for handling windows with different names. Identified bottlenecks, and discussed the same with business analysis team, developers and technical architects and attended meetings. Detected Defects, communicated to the developers using Bug Reporting Tool and Tracking the Defects using Quality Center/ALM or JIRA Execution of Sanity test for every Deployment. Execution of Regression Test scripts for each Release on different environments like Dev, QA Experience in System testing and Regression Testing. Also, been a part of training team helping the end users in using the application. Development and maintenance of test scripts meeting requirements. Assisted users in understanding and executing automation scripts. Update the Regression suites in QC/ALM after every release is over to ensure smooth regression for the next release. Work closely with software development team to reproduce and debug issues. Client interaction on daily basis. Preparing Monthly/weekly/daily status reports. Environment: Java, SharePoint, Oracle, QTP 11.0, QC/ALM, TFS, MTM, Data Driven Framework, Hybrid Framework, Internet Explorer, Windows 7. 