SUMMARY Holding 5+ years of extensive experience in Analyzing, Designing and Implementation of QA testing for Web based and Client/Server applications using manual testing and Automation testing Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Defect life cycle management and different methodologies like Waterfall, Agile, and Scrum, Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC). Experienced with various types of testing like GUI testing, Web testing, Regression testing, User Acceptance Testing, System Testing, Integration Testing, End to End Testing, Unit Testing. Experience in testing native applications on iPhone, Android and iPod devices (Manual & Automation). Expertise in creating User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Interacting with Business Owners for validations. Experience in working with Application Servers, Database Servers and Mainframes systems. Proficient in using locators like CSS, XPath and DOM for locating the elements in Selenium, SAHI. Good working experience in automation tools like Selenium Web driver, Selenium RC, selenium IDE, Grid and QTP (Quick Test Professional), Appium to develop automation testing scripts for web, Mobile and client server applications. Experience in analyzing ETL mapping documents and creating SQL scripts based on ETL mapping documents to compare data outputs. Mobile Testing with Appium, Protractor, Espresso Developed automation test cases, executed these test scripts from test lab and logged defects in JIRA/ALM. Ability to generate crash reports and report it to developers for Error Debugging. Worked on multiple projects and extensively involved in User Acceptance testing (UAT), End to End, Sanity Testing, Functional Testing, Regression Testing, Validation testing, Performance Testing, black box, white box and Cross - Browser testing. Experience in Mobile Testing using Appium for Android and IOS devices. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing methods: Waterfall, Agile Methodology(Scrum) Testing Tools: Selenium IDE, Selenium WebDriver, Unified Functional Testing (QTP), SoapUI, Postman, Appium (iOS/Android) Test Management Tools: HP ALM/ Quality Center, JIRA, TestNG, Cucumber, Espresso. Programming Languages: Java, VB Script, SQL, HTML, XML, JavaScript. Database Management Systems: Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, MS Access, Toad Operating Systems: Windows, MAC OS, UNIX, Andriod. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Dallas TX Automation Tester Responsibilities: Interacted with Business Analyst and Developers to understand the application architecture and recommend testing strategy. Worked on Selenium GUI Object / element verification is done through XPath, CSS Locators. Developed test scripts to automate the process of testing in Selenium WebDriver. Setup and Configured the testing environment with Eclipse IDE, JUNIT and Selenium Web driver. Created test automation framework using Selenium Web Driver, Data Drive Framework for further test creation and execution. Performed Mobile Automation Testing on IOS platforms using iPhone & iPad Devices with Appium. Automation of Rest Services using SOAPUI and POSTMAN Writing the Cucumber feature files using Gherkins and stored as step definitions. Performed User interface testing to validate UI elements and used UI Automator viewer to locate elements for Appium test automation framework. Created custom XML Assertors to validate SOAP (WSDL) and REST API calls, and Data Banks to store and analyze data input/output and error logs. Developed and executed SQL queries in the database to conduct Data integrity testing by checking the data tables on the server. Developed BDD tests using Cucumber by writing features and developed required Selenium support code in JAVA for Cucumber. Performed stress test on data migration from SQL database. Performed defect reporting and bug tracking using JIRA also followed up with development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status. Automation of Rest Services using SOA concepts. Integrated with Continuous Integration tools Jenkins for running test on nightly basis automatically. Performed load testing - used thread Groups, samplers, listeners to calculate the average response time. Environment: Eclipse IDE, Selenium Web Driver, POSTMAN, Appium, JIRA, data migration, SOAPUI, WSDL, XML, Agile, Rest API. Confidential, Franklin Lakes, NJ QA Automation Tester Responsibilities: Designed, executed and maintained Automation Test cases using Selenium Web Driver, Test NG for regression and functional testing. Configured Selenium Web Driver, TestNG, Maven tool and created Selenium automation scripts in java using JUnit prior to agile release. Implemented Data Driven Frameworks to create parameterized test scripts and generate XSLT reports using Selenium Web Driver and TestNG framework Created Automation Testing Framework for Android Application Testing with Espresso and Java. Reviewed test plans, test cases and test scripts to ensure consistency with strategic direction, goals and objectives of QA resources working on the project with Agile SCRUM methodology. Used Maven for building the Web Driver project and integrated with Continuous Integration tool Jenkins for running test on a scheduled basis automatically. Involved in designing data driven framework for reading the data from excel sheets using Apache POI library and TestNG data provider. Implemented mobile automation framework using APPIUM and developed automation test scripts to test IOS and Android platforms. Used Emulators and Simulators to test the application virtually. Performed Acceptance testing and UI functional testing using Perfecto with extension of Appium and Java as scripting language. Reviewed database test cases according to assigned requirements to validate reports by retrieving data with complex SQL queries from oracle database. Designed, executed and maintained End to End Automation Test scripts using Protractor and Jasmine Framework. Responsible for assisting various business units with UAT script development and conversion into HP ALM format. Written Gherkins and Java scripting automation test scripts to execute in cucumber. Used Git as code repository and Code Collaborator to manage code reviews. Conducted Automation testing using the Standards, guidelines and structured methodology in testing the application using Java, JSON. Involved in Web Services Testing using SOAPUI with rest to create and execute automated functional, regression, compliance, and load tests. Created JMeter scripts to perform the load, volume, stress and capacity testing. Developed and deployed test Load scripts to do end to end performance testing using LoadRunner. Performed defect reporting and bug tracking using JIRA also followed up with development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status. Environment: s: Eclipse IDE, Agile, Selenium RC/Web Driver/Grid with Java, TestNG, Cucumber, APPIUM, Perfecto, Protractor, MAVEN, HP ALM, SOAP UI, JMETER and JIRA. Confidential, Chicago, IL QA analyst Responsibilities: Performed Functional, Negative, Positive, Integration, Regression, End to End and User Acceptance Testing. Provide comprehensive testing of photo sharing application on WEB and Mobile platforms at all the stages of software development and software testing life cycle Extensively involved in writing and designing templates for the Test Plans and Test cases Identified the Test Cases and documented them in Quality Center. Worked with the Developers and the Test Lead to verify the Test Cases. Experience in Unit, Integration, System Testing using different devices(Iphone, Ipad, Ipod,Web based applications) Designed and Analyzed Test case design document basing on the Functional Requirement Specifications to implement through testing process. Execute Browser Compatibility Testing(IE, Firefox, Chrome, Safari) of a Web based application Test various mobile devices with a various platform(iOS, Android) Analyzed and Developed Test Plan, Test Cases, Test Scripts, Expected Test Results and Test Procedure from functional requirement for different modules in SAP Involved in creating the Traceability matrix based on Functional requirement in each module. Base-line and Regression tests were scheduled and performed on every Release and build. Creation of Test Data for Member data’s according to the scenarios. Loaded the Test Data into the HP-QC to prepare for the execution of Test Cases Implemented handset automation framework, scripting and execution Sanity, Regression, Stress and Boundary test cases for mobile applications using Device Anywhere Automation Tool. Performed defect reporting and bug tracking using JIRA also followed up with development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status. Environment: s: Eclipse IDE, Agile, Selenium RC/Web Driver/Grid with Java, APPIUM, HP ALM, SOAP UI, HTML, MS Office, Microsoft Excel, MS Word, Internet Explorer, Microsoft outlook, PowerPoint, Android, IOS Confidential QA Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in interacting with the project development team to understand the project requirement. Participate in the automation feasibility analysis for new systems/applications. Executed manual test cases and identified the test cases to be automated. Involved in Preparation, Reviewing and Execution of test case. Develop the user defined functions for automation scenarios. Enhanced the scripts by adding user-defined functions. Updating and maintaining the automation test script for every release. Tested various menus, options and utilities and Executed VB Scripts developed in QTP/UFT. Experience in Descriptive Programming using QTP/UFT. Worked on the high-level framework, identifying the functional areas and created different functions to make the scripts reusable in Quick Test Professional. Prepared Test Cases for GUI application. Developed test scripts for Data driven testing using parameterization in QTP/UFT by using Excel sheet for test data and Database Queries based on the functionality. Prepared test scripts using Quick Test Professional with checkpoints using regular expressions for handling windows with different names. Identified bottlenecks, and discussed the same with business analysis team, developers and technical architects and attended meetings. Detected Defects, communicated to the developers using Bug Reporting Tool and Tracking the Defects using Quality Center/ALM or JIRA Execution of Sanity test for every Deployment. Execution of Regression Test scripts for each Release on different environments like Dev, QA Experience in System testing and Regression Testing. Also, been a part of training team helping the end users in using the application. Development and maintenance of test scripts meeting requirements. Assisted users in understanding and executing automation scripts. Update the Regression suites in QC/ALM after every release is over to ensure smooth regression for the next release. Work closely with software development team to reproduce and debug issues. Client interaction on daily basis. Preparing Monthly/weekly/daily status reports. Environment: Java, SharePoint, Oracle, QTP 11.0, QC/ALM, TFS, MTM, Data Driven Framework, Hybrid Framework, Internet Explorer, Windows 7. 