SUMMARY Over 6+ years of Total IT experience in Java Development, Quality Assurance in Manual Testing, Automated Testing, and Database testing on Web based application and Client/Server based applications. Exposure to all stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Test Life Cycle (STLC) and software development methodologies such as Agile, V Model, Waterfall and SCRUM. Experienced working in Banking and Telecom domains. Experience in working with open source toolsSelenium (Selenium IDE, Selenium RC, and Selenium Web Driver), JUnit, Eclipseand preparation of automation test framework. Expertise in both manual and automation testing of Web services. Designed and developed Automation Frameworks like Keyword Driven, Hybrid driven and BDD Worked on front end web application development that involved HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, and CSS. Experience in developing in Core java programming using OOPS concepts. Good Expertise in Schedule jobs via Jenkins (Continuous Delivery) and Continuous Integration for automating the build and deploy processes allowing significant increase in test automation. Monitoring the jobs scheduled jobs Expertise in exporting JUNIT scripts fromSelenium IDEto Eclipse JUNIT Test Suites, creating new JUNIT test cases, modifying the scripts and writing test suites usingJUNIT. Good Experience in unit testing/White box testing the code developed by the developers Experience in developing and understanding of HTML, XML, CSS and Good Experience in JQuery, Java script Good Experience in using Configuration management tools like Sub Version, Team Foundation Server (TFS), GitHub, and Build management tools like MAVEN. Worked very closely with the Devops team in Agile methodology for deploying and building the Automation Scripts in Continuous integration Worked extensively on Agile Projects and hands on experience in creating task for sprint in Rally and attended Sprint Planning, Scrums, Sprint Review meetings. Experience in working with Test Management/Bug Tracking tools like HP ALM/Quality Center/Rally/JIRA, to track test execution progress and prioritize bug fixes. Good knowledge on designing and executing Automated Tests for Data Driven Testing. Experience in developing manual and automated Test scripts and test cases based on the client provided BRD, FRS and SRS. Excellent knowledge on Business Process Management and CMMI Levels Understanding. Extensive experience on SOAP and REST web services testing. Good experience in Web Services testing using SOAPUI, XML, & WSDL. Providing required input data to request XML & get the required data from response XML & use the response data from request XML using SOAPUI. Expertise in Functional, Integration and System testing (software testing). Expertise in writingSQLQueries, PLSQLstored procedures for databases like Oracle,MySQLas well as Windows platforms. Proficient in executing test scripts both manually and using Quality Center. Proficient performing different kinds of testing like Smoke, Sanity, Functional, GUI, Backend, White Box, Parallel Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing & UAT. Experience in defect tracking system and bug life cycle using Test Director, HP Quality Center. Strong exposure testing applications on different browsers - IE 6.0, 7.0, Firefox, Safari 3x. Good Analytical and Communication Skills and ability to work independently with minimal supervision and perform as part of a team. Ability to work under competing deadlines. TECHNICAL SKILLS Platforms: Windows 8/7/Vista/XP Programming: HTML, CSS, XML, JAVA, JavaScript, JSP, SQL, Web services, Soap Database: Oracle 10g, SQL Plus. Bug Tracking: JIRA, Bugzilla, QC, CA Rally Web/Technologies: HTML, XML, CSS, Xpath, Firebug, Java, J2EE, Jenkins (CI) Tool: Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Selenium IDE, Quality Center/ ALM 11, Load Runner, Cucumber, Jmeter, Junit. Browsers: MS Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Chrome, Safari, Opera. Build Tool: Maven Test Approaches: Waterfall, Agile/Scrum, SDLC, STLC Types of testing: Manual Testing, UI Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing, Black Box Testing PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, AZ Sr. Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Coordinated with Project Managers, Development Team, Business Analysts, and End-Users for better quality testing. Worked closely with business team to understand the Requirement Document in creating Test Plan. Extensively worked on test cases involving validation of data at all levels including field level validators and UI validation. Performed functional, regression and UAT Testing extensively used Selenium Web driver. Used J2EE for the implementation of script on Eclipse. TestNG and Junit annotation are using for the implementation. Used XPath and DOM to work with dynamic and static objects inSelenium Maintained Automation scripts and responsible for code check-ins into SVN Prepared PL/SQL scripts to verify the database updates, inserts and deletes of the records Used Java Script to code the test cases in Selenium tool and also process strong knowledge on the same Used MAVEN to build and run the Selenium automation framework. Once the script got over, framework used to send the automation reports over email Developed Automation frameworks like Hybrid and BDD. Implemented BDD framework first time in the organization by writing features files, step definitions and closely worked with the Product owner using cucumber. Used cucumber annotations for implementing the automation for feature files. Used TestNG Parameter, TestNG.xmlandData Provider (MethodandITest Context.) for parameterization. Used Selenium automation (TestNG) to different type of browsers to perform Cross Browser Testing. Created synchronization points in the application to deal with timing problems. Knowledge on the Android application development and worked very closely with android developer and performed unit testing and black box testing Mapped all the Requirements with the test cases using Requirement traceability matrix. Performed Black Box Testing, UAT Testing and extensively used Selenium for Regression, Smoke, Functional Testing and data driven testing using excel file in Selenium. Involved in the Quality Assurance Analysis and Testing Information System. Performed the application compatibility in the Versions of Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Internet Explorer browsers using Selenium. Used Java language for automation of testing. Defects were tracked, reviewed, analyzed and compared using Jira. Used an Agile model of development life cycle (SCRUM). Used selenium with java, frameworks, design approaches, and various effective implementation techniques. Actively involved in detection of issues with test cases, design, execution and plans. Participated QA weekly meetings and various other meetings and discusses enhancement and modification request issues and defects in the application. Involved in Web services testing using SOAPUI Tool. Validated request and response XML. Added assertions to validate the XML in Web services SOAP and RESTFUL service. Experience testing with Rest/SOAP Web Services using Ready API/SOAPUI. Data Defined and Manipulate (DDL/DML) using SQL Queries in MYSQL Experienced in Testing Web based applications and also worked in SOAP testing. Json, Rest. Environment: Java,Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Firebug, FirePath, XML, XPATH, DOM, Quality Center, Cucumber, Jira, SVN, Agile, Internet Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, SQL, Jenkins, SoapUI, Gherkin, Eclipse, Maven, Appium, Oracle. Confidential, VA Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Analyzed the system requirements and developed detailed test plans and test cases and provided the documentation. Collaborated with product management teams in an agile environment to develop a comprehensive set of tests for web-based applications. Involved in complex test cases dealing with Business rules, under writing issues and validations. Involved in test cases related to quote screens and rating behavior. Tested the behavioral changes in modifiers according to question sets response. Studied and analyzed the Functional Requirements Specifications and System Design Specifications and interacted with developers for changes in requirements if any. Developing Test plan of the application as per technical specifications. Involved in writing Unit and Regression Test cases for the Product. Involved in setting up the automation framework using Selenium Web Driver, TestNG. Involved in automation testing using Java and selenium. Extensively used cucumber and feature files for implementing the BDD framework. Worked on developing Java code for automation process. Used XPath and DOM to work with dynamic and static objects in Selenium. Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and created selenium automation scripts in java. Developed Automation framework both Data driven and Hybrid using Selenium WebDriver in Java and performing unit testing by using TestNG. Creating and maintaining various databases usingSQLServer 2005/2000. Prepared manual test cases for service appointment creation, modification and deletion. Created automated test scripts for validating the nightly product builds and regression testing. Maintained Defects using Defect Tracking System in Jira. Participated in various meetings and discussed Enhancement and Modification Request issues. Performed all test assignments to ensure the application meets business requirements and client expectations. Interacted with developers & various members of project team to discuss and resolve defects and to determine their priorities. Summarize test results in formula test analysis reports according to the documentation standards. Involved in testing Webservices (SOAP and REST) and XML with tool called 'SOAP UI' for the local WSDL / with URL and created Test cases, run them, do load testing, security testing. Handled various operations like pop-ups, Web-Alerts, Java-Alerts, iframes, windows-handling and utilized Select class and Action class for required operations. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, Java, IBM Curam 6.0 5.1,TestNG, SQL, Apache POI, Maven, Log4j, JDBC, Eclipse, Web Services, SOAP UI, Restful, SOAPUI, iPhone, iPad, Android, HTML, CSS, JIRA, Oracle11g, MSWord, MS Excel, PL/SQL Developer, Windows 7. Confidential, NYC QA Engineer Responsibilities: Deduced requirements from business to determine functional specifications leading to concrete implementation requirements. Served as a liaison between business, application team and technical team Reviewed the requirements and use case diagrams to write Test Cases/ Test plan that would test various scenarios. Create test plan and test cases for manual and automated testing from business requirements to match the project’s initiatives. Used Keyword driven, Page Object Model, Data Driven using CSS Selectors as a part of Framework. Helped Automation engineers in writing the code and solved technical issues Experience in parallel testing using Selenium Web Driver. Worked on Agile (Scrum) project methodology. Perform Selenium automation usingSelenium Web Driver and Selenium IDE Test the web modules flow and improve the script performance using Selenium find elements. Tested Service Oriented Architecture application using Soap UI. Performed Integration and Regression tests to check compatibility of new functionality with the existing functionalities of the application. Extensively used Selenium APIs such as taking a Screenshot for Capturing Failed test cases, select for selecting multiple values from list, Action for various key and mouse event, by with different Locators (Xpath, CSS, id, Link text). Wrote SQL queries extensively, queried database and generated test reports. Performed Defect Tracking & Management in Rally. Supported production install and served for project issues in the capacity of a Lead Analyst. Involved in Unit Testing the code and provided the feedback to the developers. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, Java, Junit, BugZilla, HTML, CSS, TestNG, MS Office, Jenkins, SQL, XPath, SOAP UI, Windows. 