SUMMARY With 7 years of diverse experience in Information Technology spanning 5 projects with an emphasis on Software Quality Assurance, performing Manual and Automated Testing of standalone, client/server and web applications. Expertise in Bug tracking tools such as HP Quality Center, JIRA and Rational clear quest. Working knowledge of software development methodologies such as Waterfall and Agile XP/ Kanban. Excellent skills in writing Test Plans and Test Cases. Extensive experience in Testing Client/Server and Web - based Applications/ Web- services/ JAVA/ JSF. Develop test cases based on Business requirements, Functional and Technical specifications and Development standards for assigned projects/applications. Extensive knowledge in Retail domain for applications such as Ecommerce applications, Retail web based testing, RPM (Retail Pricing Management), SIM (System Inventory Management), RMS (Retail Merchandising System) applications, WMS (Warehouse Management System). Expertise in working with Third Party vendors (on-shore &off-shore) and managing testing for multiple work streams in large projects. Experienced in Manual and Automated Testing in Unix, Mac and Windows operating systems and mobile platforms(Apple, Android) Experience with Gray Box and Black Box Testing. Have worked on MS Dynamics CRM for functional, regression and Database verification testing. Extensive knowledge of different kinds of testing like Website testing, Positive/Negative Testing, Black/White box Testing, Back-End Testing, Cross browser testing, Integration testing, System testing, Configuration testing, Compatibility testing, End to End Testing, Functional, Integration Testing, System Testing and Regression Testing. Good knowledge of automated testing tools such as QTP and Load Runner/ Selenium IDE/ SOAP UI (Web-service testing). Excellent skills in generating and maintaining Test Matrix and Requirement Traceability Matrix. Good knowledge of Point of Sale (POS) Applications testing/ emulators/ POS labs/ mobile testing. Perform Backend testing by using SQL queries to verify the integrity of the database in SQL SERVER 2012/ Oracle 11i / IBM DB2. TECHNICAL SKILLS Methodologies:  Agile, Waterfall Testing tools:  HP Quality Center, IBM DOORS, JIRA/ Confluence, emulator, IBM OMS, Team foundation server, Rational ClearQuest, Selenium Languages:  MS SQL Server 2012, Oracle, MySQL, MS Access Office Tools:  MS Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint Business Modeling Tools:  Microsoft Visio, Sharepoint, MS Dynamics Database:  MS SQL Server, MS Access, and Oracle PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Gaithersburg, MD QA Analyst Responsibilities: Preparing Test plan for Windows and iOS platform based Media Signage Testing. Testing in Linux and windows based environment. Automation testing using Selenium with JAVA Scripting tool. Recorded bugs in JIRA and Bugzilla. Executed Java scripts in Selenium for regression testing. Documenting processes for image creation in windows and Mac boxes. Performed Sanity, smoke and integration testing for the new releases. Regression testing after installation of version updates on windows and iOS boxes. Testing security features (ssh) after installation of new version updates. Documenting test cases and test scenarios for every test performed. Testing using shell commands and using putty to test Linux based systems. Created and Executed Test Scenarios for web based applications. Interacted with business analysts, users and developers to prioritize user functionality issues. Tested the interface to handle the windows stations including, file servers, database, security, user account management, sales, logon authorization and web services. Performed Regression testing to ensure that new changes in the application haven’t affected any existing functionality. Involved in performing Negative and Positive testing by executing various test cases. Responsible for updating the entire team with weekly status updates for the progress of testing efforts and open issues to be resolved. Attended Inspection and walk through with management to assess the progress of testing efforts Participated in daily and weekly status meetings Involved in documentation as to how to maintain and run scripts for future enhancements. Environment: JIRA, Bugzilla, iOS 10.X, Windows 10, LG Smart TV, Linux, Putty, Selenium. Confidential, Portland, OR QA Analyst Responsibilities: Worked with Project Management to scope the testing effort and provided status and estimates. Executed Java Scripts using Selenium. Developed detailed test plans and test cases, Entrance and Exit criteria for the application being tested and ensured that standards for documentation were followed. Created and maintained the Tractability Matrix and Test Matrix pivot tables using MS Excel. Troubleshoot new releases and production issues. Interacted on a regular basis with web developers and business analysts on any Change of Requirements and implemented troubleshoot criteria in a timely manner. Performed Manual Testing on different modules of the application. Executed Smoke Testing to determine possibility of further testing manually. Performed Smoke Testing, GUI Testing, regression testing and User Acceptance testing. Manually conducted Backend Testing when Front-end in Windows and Backend in ORACLE. Performed cross browser testing for Firefox, Google Chrome, Internet Explorer and Safari. Manually conducted Positive Testing by putting correct inputs to ensure that it functions as desired and Negative Testing by putting incorrect inputs to ensure that it fails as expected. Involved in writing SQL Queries to check for the data validation using MS SQL software. Used HP Quality Center for Tracking Defects and Reporting Bugs. Conducted Result Analysis and interacted with developers to resolve issues related to bugs. Used Selenium IDE for open source web testing. ENVIRONMENT: HP Quality Center, SQL Server, Selenium. Confidential Responsibilities: Participated in design, development phase and documentede-Commerce and Mobile Business Applicationsand interfaces for multiple environments. Drove multiple projects with different work streams towards completion of testing, defect resolution, implementation, and support in an Agile/Scrum development environment. Comprehensive knowledge of Visual Studio. Executed Functional, Integration and Regression testing of the e-Commerce application using QTP. Participated in business requirement gathering for mobile applications. Tested native and web based applications on mobile and tablet devices Creation and Execution of Test Scripts using Quick Test Professional (QTP) and analyze results including black box and regression testing. Worked in an Agile Environment created and tested the application in Sprints. Assisted developers in debugging efforts for mobile application by conducting root cause analysis. Used Quality Center to store test cases, report and track defects. Used SOAP UI for Web Services testing. Handled testing activities for implementing and rollback procedures while deploying enhancements into production. Worked closely with the User Acceptance Test Coordinator, Project Manager and Business System Analysts to understand business processes and develop concrete UAT cases. Environment: QTP, Visual Studio, HP QC. Confidential, Katy TX QA Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in the review of requirements with functional manager and technical specialists of the application. Designed and executed Test Plans and Test Cases and generated Test Scripts and Test scenarios. Performed Point of Sale (POS) testing to test Apple Pay option. Prepared Test cases, according to the business specification and wrote scripts using QTP according to the test cases. Coordinated User Acceptance Testing with the UAT group to ensure the correct business logic. Interfaced with the business and the technical groups in order to convert the business requirements into functional requirements. Communicated with developers on a regular basis for better understanding of the application and understand complex bug fixes and modify test plans as per developer feedback. Reviewed extensive SQL Queries with complex multi-table joins and nested queries. Created Test Plan and Test Cases Documents for Trade stoneMLM (Merchandising Lifecycle Management). Involved in Requirement gathering session for Different modules of Trade Stone MLM (Merchandising Lifecycle Management) like PLM for Retail, Order Management, and Supplier Management. Reviewed complex SQL queries, views, functions and stored procedures and spotting issues before/during code migration. Rigorously tested SQL’s implementation of existing code. Automated the Back-End testing for reusability by writing Unix. Created and maintained SQL Scripts and Unix Shell scripts to perform back-end testing on the oracle database. Wrote complex SQL queries to perform the backend testing PL/SQL server. Enhanced Scripts by adding Check Points like standard checkpoints, Text Checkpoint, output values by putting Text Area output value Check point, passing values between actions if the scripts needs. Worked on a UNIX platform and experience in backend testing by executing SQL queries. Involved in writing scripts, which involved some advanced programming of scripts using QTP. Performed Integration, Interface and UAT testing. Reviewed test plan and test results and walkthrough test results with the Business Analysts and Client. Designed project management tools, product specification documents and projects tasks. ENVIRONMENT: SQL SERVER, MS EXCEL, MS VISIO, SIEMENS TEAMCENTER PLM. Confidential, Albany, NY QA Tester Responsibilities: Involved in analyzing business requirements and writing Test Plans and Test Cases as per the specifications Created and Executed Test Scenarios Interacted with business analysts, users and developers to prioritize user functionality issues. Querying various databases for data validation by executing SQL queries. Tested the custom point of sales program and interface to handle the windows stations including, file serving, database, security, user account management, sales, logon authorization and web services. Performed Functional testing by executing the Test cases in Quality center. Performed Regression testing to ensure that new changes in the application did not break any existing functionality. Involved in performing Negative and Positive testing by executing various test cases. Used Quality Center for bug tracking and reporting Responsible for updating the QA manager with weekly status updates for the progress of testing efforts and open issues to be resolved Attended Inspection and walk through with management to assess the progress of testing efforts Participated in daily status meetings In absence of Team Lead, communicated and collaborated information flow between QA Team and Developers. Involved in documentation as to how to maintain and run scripts for future enhancements. Environment: Quality Center, Oracle, Windows 2007, SQL, Internet explorer Confidential, Seattle, WA QA Tester Responsibilities: Analyzed system specifications and business requirements and helped create the detailed Test Plan. Created Test Cases to check the functionality of Application. Conducted Stress and Load Testing using LoadRunner. Rendezvous points were inserted to enhance Load Testing. Graphs like Vusers graph, Transaction graph and web resource graph were analyzed in regards with Load testing for better results. Recorded scripts in QTP to perform Functionality testing. Used VB scripts in the expert view did enhancements to the scripts. Created Text area Checkpoints to test the properties of the text in the application using QTP. Included XML check point, to check the property of the web page. Tested the properties of the tables using table checkpoints using QTP. Created page checkpoints to test the properties and contents of the web page QTP. Timing issues between Application and the Test were taken care of by using Synchronization points. Conducted Parameterization in LoadRunner. Conducted Backend Testing manually. The Defects were identified and reported using Quality Center. Communicated changes to requirements promptly and precisely to all personnel involved. Responsible to report bugs using Quality Center and MS Excel. Updated bug status in Quality Center through regular communications with Development team. Reported directly to the test lead and discussed all issues occurred during testing. Collaboratively work with developers, business analysts and discussed technical problems. Met with the developers and technical content writers on a daily basis to update the test documents. Extensively participated in weekly status meeting with Test Team to discuss the current and future issues for testing plan as well as testing procedures. Environment: VB Script, XML, UNIX, QTP, LoadRunner, Quality Center, Windows Vista. 