SUMMARY Experienced Information technology professional Who is expertise dealing with Project Management, Quality Assurance, Data Analyst, major domain expertise in Healthcare and E - commerce over years of experience as a Tester (Manual, Automation-Selenium) in Cloud based application and Web-Based Applications. Actively participated in all the stages of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Testing Life Cycle (STLC). Experience in Information Technology Business Analysis, Business Modeling, Requirement Gathering & Documentation. Experience in writing Test Plan, Test Cases, Test Scenarios working on Manual testing and Application Lifecycle Management HP ALM and Setting up testing environment in conjunction with the Testing. Competent in Creating Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using MS Visio. Experience in authoring Business Requirement Documents (BRD) by gathering Business Requirements and Expectations from Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) and defining business processes, identifying risks, performing Feasibility Analysis and Impact analysis. Good Knowledge of Object Oriented programming Concepts (OOPS) and JavaSkills. Good experience in creating test scripts using WebDriver, Selenium RC, Selenium-IDE, Selenium Gridin Java. Good experience in Data Driven and Hybrid application testing. Experience in Functional, Regression and System testing using Manual and Automated testing tools - selenium. Experience in automating test cases usingTestNG, Junit and Cucumber, Nunit, TFS Coded UI scripting and execution and experienced in data- driven test using Jenkins and Excel. Experience in using Jenkins as a Continuous Integration server to configure with Maven. Experience in creating Test Strategy, Test Plans and Test Cases, Test Estimation, Requirement Traceability Matrix. Good Experience in using Firebug and Experience in writing XPathto locate web elements. Worked on Cross browser testing, browsers like Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome and IE using WebDriver. Experience in analyzing Business,Functional and Technical Specifications Familiar with C++, Inter Systems CACHE, Oracle, HTML, XML Experience in writingTest Plans, Test Cases, Test Procedures and Test Scriptsfrom requirements and Use-Cases Expertise in performing different types of Testing:White Box (Unit Testing, Integration testing), Black Box, Smoke, Functionality, Integration, Stress, Volume, System, Performance, Regression Testing and Full Life Cycle. Experience in Web Services testing using SOAPUI, POSTMAN testing tool Experience in Software Verification and Validation based on Testing Methodology. Extensively worked on Java/J2EE technologies including CoreJava, Junit, Ant, maven, Apache Tomcat, Spring, Apache Tomcat, PL/SQL. Extensive working knowledge in UNIX,SQL and Windows platforms. Solid experience of Defect/Test Management tools like JIRA, QualityCenter, BugZilla Have developed excellent professional skills by working independently and as a team member in designing, developing, and implementing innovative business process and system solutions. TECHNICAL SKILLS Test Management Tools: JIRA, Load Runner, Selenium Web driver, Rational Clear Case/Quest, Bugzilla, REST, SQL developer, SOAPUI, Selenium IDE, Selenium Grid, Maven, SQL Server, JMeter, Postman, Jenkins, Quality Center, Quick Test Professional (QTP), MySQL Workbench, Visual Studios, Git Web Technologies: C, C++, Java, HTML, HTML5, SOAP, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, AJAX, JSP, JavaScript, PHP, Python, Ruby on Rails, Bitbucket, VBScript Databases: Oracle, MySQL and DB2 Software/Applications: MS Office SharePoint, UML, Adobe Acrobat, MS Visio, MS Project, Intellij, Visual Studio, Eclipse IDE, CMS, Confluence Browsers & Servers: Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, Safari, Opera, Apache Tomcat, Apache SOLR. Operating Systems: Windows and MacOS Mobile Operating Systems: Android and iOS Bug Reporting Tools: JIRA, HP ALM, Quality Center, Clear Quest PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential QA Engineer (Selenium Automation Tester) Responsibilities: Analyze the Business Requirements and closely work with the Business Team to get the clarifications addressed Run Defect Trailing and Review the Test Scenarios/Test Cases with Business Designed, executed and maintained Selenium Web Driver (TestNG, JUnit) automated test cases for regression test cases Selected the Test Cases to be automated and performed functional testing of the front end using Selenium (IDE and Web Driver) & created Data Driven framework using JUnit. Executed parallel browser testing on various machines using Selenium Grid and performed cross browser testing. Performed web-based performance testing and analysis using JMeter. Execute the Test cases and review the results to get the Business approval for UAT Experience in Web Services testing using REST and SOAP UI. Created automation framework in Selenium WebDriver using behavior driven approach like Cucumber. Developed Keyword Driven and Data Driven frameworks to retrieve test actions, test data from Excel files and SQL Databases. Wrote tests using Java web applications. Web controls testing - wrote automation to test the controls from end to end starting to invoking in Internet Explorer and Chrome. Experienced in giving training to the functional testers to execute Test Cases using Selenium as part of Regression Testing. Created automated functional regression test scripts using QTP and scheduled, organized and executed the test scripts in QC-QTP integrate environment and documented the test results. Experienced in testing applications manually as well as using the automated testing tools like Quality Center/ALM. Created Automation framework for Frontend Angular.js testing using Protractor and Cucumber/Chai libraries Strong POS Sales (T-log) Knowledge and integration with Payment processing Extensively automated regression and functional test suites by developing test cases, test suites using Selenium WebDriver, JAVA, JUnit. Transactions analysis for EMV cards in cash withdrawals and Scripts EMV in pin change transactions. Co-ordination between Technology and Business to ensure all the outstanding issues are being addressed, fixed and retested. Performed Database Testingand thorough knowledge in SQL/PL SQL. Planning for Test Execution activities to accomplish tasks on daily/weekly basis Performed browser compatibility testing Performing Regression test using automated testing tool Selenium and QTP. Involved in the regression test planning for the project and identified the critical regression tests Executed the automated regression test cases during every release and also executed the daily regression test suites Expert knowledge on daily status reporting and managed end to end testing from Test management tools like JIRA. Environment: JIRA, JAVA, J2EE, AGILE, Windows, Eclipse, PL/SQL, Maven, TestNG, Selenium Suite, JMeter, Cucumber, GitHub, Postman, Jenkins, Mercury/HP Tools (Quick Test Pro(QTP)), VBScript, Python, Visual studio Confidential, Seattle, Washington QA Engineer (Mobile Application Tester) Responsibilities: Analyzing business, functional requirements and used and developed test plans, test cases and test scripts for both positive and negative tests. Implemented handset automation framework, scripting and execution Sanity, Regression, Stress and Boundary test cases for mobile applications using Device Anywhere Automation Tool. Following the standard test process guide for the QA Methodology. ImplementedWireless Handset automation framework, scripting & execution Sanity, Regression, Stress & Boundary test cases for mobile applications on Android, Apple, RIM, BREW & WinM platforms on various Blackberry, iPhones & iPads using Device Anywhere Automation Tool. Performed mobile application validation on various target platforms like iOS and Android Performed validation on multiple devices types like iPhone, iPad, Android devices including tablets Performing functional, regression and integration testing using Automation tools to make sure the application conforms to the requirement specifications. Preparing reports and test results after each release cycle for management and further test planning. Developed test scripts on Device Anywhere according to test specifications/ requirements. Identified the queries which were taking too long and optimized those queries to improve performance Used Device Anywhere, executed multi-user performance tests, used test suites, scheduler and other features of the Device Anywhere. Maintained and executed test cases using Quality Center. Created and implemented testing process for Agile methodology Environment: Device Anywhere, Quality Center,Windows, Android SDK, iOS SDK, Windows, Mobile, J2EE, J2ME, Java script, XML, HTML, JSP, C++, CSS, Ajax, GSM, CDMA, UMTS Confidential, New York, NY QA Engineer (Automation + Manual) Responsibilities: Involved in whole life cycle of QA Methodologies starting from Test Planning, Test Design, Executing, Reporting and Tracking the defects using Quality Center Validated functionalities and behavior of the application through both Manual and automated process Developed automated test scripts from scratch using Descriptive Programming in VB Script Coordinated with the Business Analyst, Project Manager, and development team to understand the architecture and functionality of the application Environment: HP QTP, REST, SQL, PL/SQL, HP Quality Center, Load Runner, JIRA, VBScript, Java, JSP, Win Server, HTML, XML,HTTPS, FTP, Business Objects, DB2, Oracle, MySQL, Unix, Windows Confidential QA Analyst & Tester Responsibilities: Collaborated with Engineering and Development teams to design, develop and execute testing plans to thoroughly exercise new application products and features Developed test cases, test scripts and test matrix for test execution Assisted the successful completion of software projects by executing on software quality activities throughout the software development life cycle Participated in coordinating test plans with Engineering, Development and customer facing teams to reconcile dependencies and provided a coordinated release cycle Provided feedback on product design, identified user scenarios, established quality criteria, tracked code coverage, and worked with other test and development teams Interfaced heavily with Product Management, Business Analysts, QA Team Members, Developers and Development Managers to coordinate all performance testing efforts Built new methods to minimize manual testing by developing testing tools to exercise various components in all application products Assured product design and performance conform to product requirements and specifications Performed usability, platform compatibility, and stress testing for company's applications. Attended daily stand up, release planning, weekly QA meetings and gave demos Environment: s: JIRA, Windows, Java, Microsoft Excel, Eclipse, HTML, CSS, JS 