SUMMARY Around 7 years of experience in Information Technology with specializing in Software Quality Assurance Testing, proficient in testing on Client/Server and Web based applications. In depth understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and Bug Life Cycle (BLC). And QA methodologies including Waterfall and Agile methodologies to ensure appropriate Quality Control. Proven ability in designing and creating automation frameworks for J2EE based applications using Java, JUnit/ Testing,Selenium Web Driver/IDE/Grid, ANT/Maven and Jenkins. Expertise in working with Manual and Automated testing tools: SOAP Scope, SOAP UI, IBM RIT (GreenHat (GH) Tester), Clear Quest and Quality Center HP ALM11, CALT. Working knowledge of SOA, Web Services, Web Services Definition Language (WSDL), SOAP, XML and XML Spy. Good experience in creating, modifying and enhancing both manual Test cases and Test Scripts created in Selenium Webdriver with Test NG and Junit frameworks. Experience in Automation, Integration (CIT/SIT/UAT), Installation, Smoke, Regression, System, GUI, Adhoc, Incident, Recovery, Cross Browser and Compatibility Testing. Testing the Functionalities using Black Box testing technique. Excellent knowledge and working experience in test execution and test results analysis. Extensively Used HP Quality Center and JIRA to create Test cases and report Bugs in Defect Module Having good knowledge in basic XML, SQL and VBS commands. And has complete knowledge of Defect Life Cycle. Using Spring Framework written Java Coding for API Testing using Post. Performed Java Web Services testing for REST API Calls. Performed API Testing using Rest Client and SOAP UI. Worked with Unix/shell scripting for caching data from Oracle database to MySQL database. Fair Hands - on experience using Xpath functions and page object model. Experience with Jenkins integration for continuous integration. Using JMeter performed Unit Level Validation like special characters, uniqueness, invalid input, specified data range, boundary values for account creation. Extensive knowledge on Cucumber and able to create feature file using Gherkin. Backend testing using SQL Queries. Involved in creating theScenarios forsingle and multi-user test. Expertise inData driven testing, Back-End testing. Involved in Test designing by preparing High Level Scenarios & Test Cases by verifying BRD’s & HLD’s. Systematic Understanding of Unix/Linux/Windows Environment. Flexible and versatile to adapt any new environment and work on any projects independently when needed. Mentored new team members for knowing the process and leading them in various situations to meet the deliverables on time. Zeal to learn new technologies and undertake challenging tasks. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver/RC/IDE/GRID, HP Quality Center, SOAP UI, ALM, HP UFT/QTP, Junit, TestNG Languages: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java, XML Version Control: CVS, SVN, Github Defect Tracking Tools: Jira, BugZilla, IBM Rational ClearQuest Build / CI Tools: ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Hudson, Cruise Control Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall, V Model Databases: Oracle, SQL Server, MS Access Operating Systems: Windows, Unix, Mac OS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Portland, OR Selenium Test Engineer Responsibilities: Extensively involved in analyzing Business Requirements, created testing strategies, testing plans and prepared detailed test cases for the Application under Test (AUT). Developed automation test scripts using Selenium Web Driver and Java. Developed Data Driven Test scripts as well as running these scripts for Message processing, Registration, and Reports testing using Selenium WebDriver. Created test cases, test plans, tested API’s, wrote JUnit test cases, executed code coverage and wrote automation scripts using Selenium WebDriver. Developed and executed test cases for EWS (Enterprise Web Services) / SOAP and RESTful services using SoapUI. Developed and design necessary test plan and test scripts for functional and performance testing using, Selenium Web Driver, TestNG, Maven, Jenkins and JMeter. Created the JUnit test cases for the different web applications using Eclipse IDE. Automated web application using Selenium WebDriver and Cucumber framework. Test case creation in Ruby according to the user stories and performing regular and regression automationtesting. Integrated Automation scripts (Selenium WebDriver API) in Continuous Integration tools (Jenkins) for nightly batch run of the Script. Developed scripts using Selenium-web driver and Ruby API to automate web based applications Performed SOA/ web services testing using SOAP UI; wrote adaptors to test / invoke web services. Behavior-Driven Development (BDD) implementation with Cucumber gherkin and Jenkins Continuous Integration. Extended data driven framework and developed re-usable functions across the application. Used JUnit Test to automate functional and regression testing across integrated environments. Used ANT to build and run the Selenium WebDriver automation framework. Once the script got over, framework used to send the automation reports over email. Triggered theautomationjobs using Jenkins to get the cucumberJSONreports. Extensive experience in using Testing tools such as UFT, ALM, Rally and Apache JMeter. Integrated the test suites to Jenkins to execute them automatically after every successful deployment. Performed back-end testing on Oracle and SQL Server databases by writing SQL queries to make sure the contents displayed on the UI correct as per requirements specifications. Recorded JMeter user scripts implementing parameterization both manually and by data driven wizards in JMeter. Performed defect reporting and bug tracking using JIRA and also followed up with development team to verify bug fixes, and update bug status. Environment: Java, Selenium WebDriver, QC/ ALM, Eclipse, Junit, ANT, Jenkins, JSON, JMeter, REST, SoapUI, HTML, Git, Agile, SQL, Oracle, JIRA, Windows and UNIX. Confidential, Atlanta, GA Automation Specialist Responsibilities: Analyzed business requirements, functional requirements, use cases and provided feedback for clear understanding of each requirement. Identified test cases to automate and develop automation test scripts using Selenium WebDriver and Java. Involved in creating the functional testing framework using TestNG and using Selenium WebDriver for writing Automated Scripts with Java. Developed new and updated existing Automation test cases using Selenium WebDriver and TestNG, used Git and Source Tree for a Java based Web application, used Maven as build tool and Jenkins to create and run deployment jobs. Followed Test Driven Development (TDD) as much as possible and written test cases using TestNG for every relevant class. Configured and Installed Selenium Webdriver, TestNG, Maven and Jenkins for Continuous build cycles. Worked closely with Agile Scrum team to ensure product testability while running E2E Regression tests in Selenium WebDriver using TestNG and maintained test environments used for white box testing during new product releases. Involved in developing Test automation Framework for the application using Selenium WebDriver with Maven. Reviewed the automation scripts and created Continuous Integration Jobs in Jenkins. Involved in functional testing, Integration testing, User Acceptance testing, Regression testing. Implemented and worked on Acceptance Test Driven Development (TDD) agile methodologies completing releases ahead of schedule. Involved in Agile (Scrum Process) methodology based on Project Planning, Test Planning and Coordinating on all SDLC phases. Used Quality Center for bug-reporting, tracking and to create and execute various scenarios, generate graphs, overlaid graphs for comparison, and analyzed the results. Validated the data in the database by using SQL queries. Responsible for the Team performance, and preparing & submitting the graphs and metrics to the higher management. Environment: Java, Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven, Jenkins, SoapUI, HTML, XML, JavaScript, Git, TDD, Agile, Quality Center, SQL, Oracle, Windows. Confidential, Irvine, CA QA Engineer Responsibilities: Performed agile testing, review the stories and participated in Daily Scrum, Iteration Planning and Release Planning meeting and used Rally Tool Participated in all phases of the Software Testing Life Cycle(STLC) Involved in the design and development of test plan from business and Functional requirements which includes test objectives, test strategies, test environments etc. Participated in peer review with team and developers to review test cases/test scripts. Performed System, Integration, Smoke, Sanity, Functional, End to End, Positive and Negative and monitored the behavior of the applications during different phases of testing using testing methodologies. Regression testing was performed after each build release of the application and updated the Scripts by executing the Regression suites built using Selenium and approve for regression suit. Created Selenium Test cases for automation using Selenium Web Driver and Java Used Hybrid Framework of Selenium to get data from Excel. Build a detailed, reusable, Script - free Keyword + Data - Driven framework for over 45% Test cases using Selenium WebDriver + TestNG. Parallel, Cross - Browser Testing using Selenium Grid and TestNG. Performed back end testing by writing and executing SQL queries to validate that data is being populated in appropriate tables and manually verify the correctness of the data with front-end values. Interacted and worked with the development team to analyze the defects and reported them in Quality Center and tracked them for closure. Interacted with users by conducting User Acceptance Testing (UAT) to ensure that the total functionality of the application was met by complying with all the business requirements. Participated in weekly QA status and project status meetings to report any defects and issues encountered in application. Discussed with team lead and PM regarding testing deadlines and post deployment validation. Actively communicated with the end users and business users to create realistic test cases. Provide test summary documentation and analyze test results, identifying trends and/or root causes of problems. Developed training materials, system maintenance and operating manuals for the QA environment and used the same to train the users Establish business continuity through Knowledge Transfer and mentoring of new resources. Environment: Java, J2EE, Selenium IDE/WebDriver/ GRID, Web Services, SOAP, SOAP UI, REST, TEST NG, HTML, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, HP Quality Center, JXL, Agile Methodology, Rally, SQL, Oracle. Confidential Selenium Tester Responsibilities: Reviewing and analyzing business requirements and technical specifications to come up with Testing Scope. Responsible for Manual, Automation using Selenium Web Driver, Scrum and System Testing of the application at various stages. Automated Web Application Testing using Java Selenium framework in an Agile environment. Created Selenium Test cases for automation using Selenium Web Driver and Java. Used Hybrid Framework of Selenium to get data from Excel. Created and executed automated tests for functional, and regression testing using Quick Test Professional. Created QTP scripts with reusable and external Actions and, called functions in Actions. Inserted various types of check points including text checkpoints, text area checkpoints and Image checkpoints. Escalation for unresolved bugs to the concerned developers and module leaders. Used Unix Commands to access and trouble shoot Errors by accessing the Error Log files. Participated in Design Phase, together with members of the Product team, developers, and DBAs. Performed Smoke, System testing, system Integration Testing, User acceptance, Database & Regression testing. Prepared Test cases, procedures, Bug Tracking, Logging and reporting bugs using Quality center. Expert with Test documentation, such as Test Cases, Bug Reports, Use Cases etc. Designed various test Cases with different test conditions. Prepared and executed scenarios for the Regression testing on new builds. Performed Regression testing by executing the scripts developed with QTP. Conducted User Acceptance Test (UAT) with users and customers and wrote issues log based on outcome of UAT. Adopted Data Driven Methodology to the test application with different sets of data. Develop test cases on various types of credit card applications. Perform functional testing and regression testing on each field of credit card application pages. Involved in Database testing to verify data integrity tests. Extensively interacted with developers to analyze & resolve issues that were encountered while testing application. Environment: Selenium Web Driver, Web Services, SOAP UI, Restful, SOAP, Java API, Eclipse, Maven, HTML, JavaScript, MySQL, TestNG, Eclipse, Linux, Windows. Confidential QA Analyst Responsibilities: Determined test objectives through detailed analysis in order to automate features comprehensively. Developed, planned and implemented automated test cases based on software requirements and technical understanding, as well as developed and extended the current test automation infrastructure to be more efficient, both in execution and reporting. Developed test scripts in WinRunner, and LoadRunner. Updated test cases and test scripts according to changed requirements as well as using Quick Test Pro for regression testing. Identified software capability and reliability by conducting functional, system, and regression and performance tests. Documented and reported test outcomes by collecting, analyzing, interpreting and summarizing data to development team. Assisted in reproducing, investigating and debugging software issues in coordination with the development team. Worked with minimal supervision, whilst being responsive in a fast paced development environment. Also, mentored others in software testing best practices. Environment: WinRunner, LoadRunner, Quick Test Pro, SQL, Web Logic, Windows XP. 