SUMMARY Quality Assurance Professional with over 7 years of experience in software testing field exposed to all QA processes, ETL & database testing, Automation testing and Business Intelligence solutions. Experience in testing data warehousing including Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, Sqoop, MapReduce. ISTQB certified Tester. Proven ability to write complex SQL queries for data validation in Oracle, DB2 and My SQL. Experience in writing Hive Queries in HQL for testing in Hadoop database. Experience in testing ETL Informatica mappings and other ETL Processes. Experience in all phases of SDLC, including requirements gathering & analysis, test estimation & planning, test strategy, test execution, defect tracking and management. Solid understanding of Agile and waterfall methodologies. Extensively involved in various testing methodologies like Black Box, White box, Functional, Integration, Regression, Cross browser, Acceptance, GUI, Performance, ETL and Database testing. Good knowledge of core Java and OOPS concepts for Test Automation. Hands on experience in writing unix commands. Ability to convert Business requirements into tests scenarios and then test cases. Good knowledge of reporting tool Cognos 7.5, Cognos 10.2 and Cognos Analytics 11. Good exposure to Defect reporting tool JIRA, logging test plans and following the defect life cycle. Experience in monitoring and managing job flows in Control - M. Excellent verbal and written communication skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Automation, ETL Testing Tools: Selenium, Informatica Programming Languages: Python, Java Databases: DB2, Oracle, Hadoop, MySQL, Teradata Test Management Tools: Quality Center, JIRA Reporting Tools: Cognos10.2, Cognos11 analytics, Tableau Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, Bugzilla Operating System: Unix, Windows Testing: Functional, ETL, UI, Sanity, Regression, Database, Performance, System integration PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Senior Software Test Engineer Confidential Responsibilities: Developing test plans, test cases and test scenarios for various Change requests and projects. Performing end to end data testing which involved validating data types, data count and data completeness. Validating big data during migration activities from DB2 to Hadoop using Sqoop (DWH Testing). Writing HIVE queries, Testing Informatica mappings (ETL/BI testing). Testing workflows, sessions, tasks and their corresponding table for data and count validation. Validating data at the field level which confirms that each transformation is operating fine. Scheduling and monitoring jobs in Control M and taking necessary action when a job gets failed or delayed. Creating self-service reports using Cognos 10.2 report studio. Creating tableau dashboards and reports for data analysis. Preparing test data and setting up QA environment as per the Test Plan and exit criteria. PL/SQL: Writing SQL queries for Cognos report testing as per the selection and validating report output with query output. Assessing the initial data loaded, as well as incremental data that continues to be loaded in real-time or frequently due to modifications and transformations. Implementing branching strategy suitable for agile development in GIT. Also used JIRA Performing end to end Database testing which involved validating data types, data count and data. Attending weekly status calls and daily Scrum meetings with the onsite team for continuous update of the project. Analyze/interpret test results, provide suggestions to improve testing Performing data migration testing by ensuring if data is migrated accurately and completely, mapping at field and table level remain unchanged. Sr. QA Engineer Confidential Responsibilities: Extensively involved in writing test documents such as test plans, test strategies as well as test scripts and executing them for its infotainment portal. Performing Front end Web Portal testing including API’s. Comparing the results of pre and post output using Excel VLOOKUP. Involved in Manual and Automated testing of applications on Windows and Unix environments. Doing performance testing and suggesting the best measures to improve performance. Writing test scripts and automated test cases for User Interface (UI) and backend testing that are reliable, efficient and that can be reused. Reviewing developer product and test java code to identify code defects and test automation coverage gaps. Generating test data in JSON file format for multiple applications. Writing and executing database test cases for MYSQL and reporting the defects to the developer. Writing PL/SQL stored procedures to generate reports for the number of daily users on site. Creating and assigning bugs and making weekly Bug reports. Used JIRA in Agile environment. Reviewing business requirement documents, product specifications, and technical design documents to provide feature design feedback and drive testability into the design of the product. Software Test Engineer Confidential Responsibilities: Handling Web Application and Database projects involving SQL. Testing and verifying the new functionalities/applications with every build and reporting bugs using Bugzilla. Performing End-to-end flow testing, verifying data at all levels. Taking ownership of the project, providing training to new members in the project. Coordinating with development team for the issues found while testing and to facilitate quick fixed to the critical issues and ensuring their quick, timely and successful release to live. Creating test results reports and creating a tracker on SharePoint with defining severity for each defect. Also exposed to using JIRA (Started with Waterfall, then Agile environment) Adhering to Timelines and Quality for all the projects.