SUMMARY More than 6 years of software development and implementation experience in Client - Server Web and Windows applications utilizing C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, MVC, JavaScript, Typescript, JQuery, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, LINQ, MS SQL Server, ADO.NET, Oracle, and Amazon Web Services (AWS). Successful background in the design and development of complex enterprise-level business applications using object-oriented methodology, n-tier SOA architecture, system analysis, technical support and troubleshooting; Skilled in developing Multi-Tier/Client-Server applications implementing the concept of Object Oriented Programming & Component Based Programming. Expert in developing web and windows based applications and services using ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, and ADO.NET in Visual Studio. Excellent experience in JavaScript libraries like Angular JS, Typescript, Bootstrap, Node JS, React JS and Telerik Kendo UI. Strong experience in distributed technologies such as WCF, Web Services, REST and SOAP Proficient in Web API, Web Services, WCF, SOAP, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, LESS, JQuery and JavaScript. Excellent experience in Object Relational mappers like Entity Framework, NHibernate and POCO. Well versed with Cloud computing concepts and a good understanding of Web 2.0 technologies. Worked on highly scalable Web, Database, Business Intelligence and Reporting applications Excellent knowledge in dealing with Delegates, Assemblies, User Controls, Dynamic Controls, Custom Controls and Error Handling Techniques. Excellent implementation experience with Repository, Factory, Facade, Singleton, MVVM and MVC Design patterns. Ability to implement high performance relational databases using SQL Server  2014/2012/2008 , Oracle 10, MS Access. Hands on experience in writing test cases using N Unit testing of applications. Excellent Experience with Microsoft Enterprise Library Application Blocks and third party controls like Telerik controls and Infragestics. Excellent experience in deploying applications in both the EC2 AWS and Azure Cloud. Excellent experience with Dependency injection framework such as Ninject. Extensive exposure on agile software development methodologies. Expertise in creating data model, class diagrams, activity diagrams, use cases, sequence diagrams and flow charts using Rational Rose and Visio. Good working experience in using version control tools such as TFS, Visual Source Safe, Bit Bucket, GitHub and SubVersion (SVN). TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: C#, VB.NET, Java, SQL and PL/SQL, T-SQL Web Technologies: ASP.NET, Web API, AJAX, CSS, LESS, WCF, WPF, SharePoint, XAML, MVC, AWS, Web API, XSLT, XSD, XPATH, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, Web Services JavaScript Libraries: JQuery, Angular 2, Angular JS, Node JS, Kendo UI, React JS Database: SQL Server 2014, 2012 & 2008, My SQL Server, Oracle, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SSIS, Mongo DB and Cassandra IDE: Visual Studio .NET  2015/2013/2010 , Eclipse and NetBeans Tools: Telerik Controls, Crystal Reports, Fiddler, Postman, Bower, MS Office suite, MS Visio, MS Project, NUnit, UML and Rational Rose Version Control: MS Visual Source Safe (VSS), MS Team Foundation Server (TFS) and Subversion PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Deerfield, IL .NET Developer Responsibilities: Designed and developed user friendly web application using C#, ASP.NET MVC, SQL Server and Entity Framework. Built and developed responsive MVC applications utilizing JavaScript and jQuery in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3, LESS and Bootstrap. Extensively used Entity Framework and lambda Expressions to query over objects and large data sets. Developed an API for middle tier using asynchronous Web API controllers for responsive rendering of data. Extensively wrote and used functions, stored procedures, Views, Triggers in SQL Server using T-SQL. Improved the performance of stored procedures by monitoring performance plan and execution plan. Created RESTful based service layer using ASP.NET MVC and WebAPI. Deployed application and Web API on the azure cloud Extensively wrote unit test of the application using NUnit which achieved 100% code coverage of the business modules. Created a load and performance test using Visual studio for 25 users. Extensively utilized TFS for bug and feature tracking. Worked with Web Services (SOAP) and WCF Services. Worked on AJAX tool kit in order to increase the performance of the application. Created Navigation flow for the entire application using XML. Implemented Authentication and Authorization of application using Azure Active Directory Involved in writing SQL Queries for Back end testing while saving and deleting the data. Responsible for Database Testing with set of predefined SQL Queries. Verified the expected results in database by writing SQL Queries and Functions etc. Involved in ETL process using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) Involved in documentation of TSR (Technical Specification Requirements) by using SRS (System Requirement Specifications). Worked in Agile Environment, Scrum using TDD methodologies. Actively involved in backlog story grooming, prioritizing and estimating the stories for sprint. Environment: & Tools: C#, .Net Framework 4.5, Azure, ASP.NET MVC, Angular 2, Typescript, Bootstrap 3, LESS, JQuery, HTML5, Entity Framework 6, Visual Studio 2013, SQL 2012, WCF, MS Test, TFS. Confidential, Bolingbrook, IL .NET Developer Responsibilities: Developed user friendly application using C#, SQL server, Entity Framework. Applied multiple built-in Directives such as ng-model, ng-click into AngularJS application. Extensively used Entity Framework and lambda Expressions to query over objects and large data sets. Developed an API for middle tier using asynchronous Web API controllers for responsive rendering of data. Extensively wrote and used functions, stored procedures, Views, Triggers in SQL Server using T-SQL. Improved the performance of stored procedures by monitoring performance plan and execution plan. Created RESTful based service layer using ASP.NET MVC and WebAPI. Extensively wrote unit test of the application using NUnit which achieved 100% code coverage of the business modules. Created a load and performance test using Visual studio for 25 users. Extensively utilized TFS for bug and feature tracking. Worked with Web Services (SOAP) and WCF Services. Created Navigation flow for the entire application using XML. Involved in writing SQL Queries for Back end testing while saving and deleting the data. Responsible for Database Testing with set of predefined SQL Queries. Verified the expected results in database by writing SQL Queries and Functions etc. Involved in documentation of TSR (Technical Specification Requirements) by using SRS (System Requirement Specifications). Worked in Agile Environment, Scrum using TDD methodologies. Actively involved in backlog story grooming, prioritizing and estimating the stories for sprint. Environment: & Tools: C#, .Net Framework 4.5, ASP.NET MVC, Angular 2, Typescript, Bootstrap 3, LESS, JQuery, HTML5, Entity Framework 6, Visual Studio 2013, SQL 2012, WCF, MS Test, TFS. Confidential, Hartford, CT .Net Developer Responsibilities: Implemented the project according to the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Developed a web application using Angular, ASP.NET, Web API, C#, and Entity Framework 6. Developed WCF based web services, CSV files, and SQL databases to provide accurate estimates for pending bids. Developed a SQL Server 2012 based store procedure to perform complex business rules. Developed dynamic web pages using C#, ASP.NET, MVC, Angular JS and jQuery. Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#, LINQ and SQL. Developed using AngularJS robust, interactive, user friendly application interfaces. Created stored procedures to manipulate the database and to apply the business logic according to the user’s specifications. Used LINQ provider which will be exposed to the user and will be responsible for building and executing a query expression. Used nHibernate for mapping from .NET classes. Used Sessions to store the user-specific information throughout the Web Application. Worked with .NET Login Controls (Create User Wizard, Password Recovery, Login View, Login and Login Status) and Custom Controls. Exception Management mechanism using Exception Handling Application Blocks to handle the exceptions Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for version control. Used SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) to generate various reports for customers. Involved in Debugging and fixing the bugs in maintenance phase. Environment: & Tools: .NET Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2013, WCF, Angular 2, LINQ, Web API, MVC, C#, ASP.NET, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XSLT, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2012, TFS. Confidential, Bolingbrook, IL Programmer Analyst Responsibilities: Developed high performance, user friendly, multi-tier web applications utilizing .NET technologies such as C#, ASP.NET, SQL Server. Implementation of client side validations using JavaScript. Developed the Applications by following the company standards using Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). Participated in Requirement Analysis study and Involved in requirements gathering and Design documentation. Coded extensively using C# targeting to the functional and business requirements. Solely responsible for creating and consuming WCF service which in turn consumes a third party RateWare Web Service. Custom hosted WCF Service inside a windows service using ServiceHost. Applied multi-threading techniques to improve performance. Used Task Parallel Library (TPL) to utilize multiple processor power. Created and managed Excel Spreadsheets using third party components (Aspose Cells) Involved in developing a Remote Service to invoke Monticello’s MailDB, EntryDB software remotely by impersonating the user. Developed a robust Data Access Layer using C# with integration of ADO.NET. Used stored procedures and ADO.NET objects to communicate/query with SQL Server database. Developed T-SQL stored procedures for bulk transaction processing using XML inputs. Worked extensively with Data Adapter, Dataset, Data reader as a part of ADO.NET to access and update database. Queried SQL Database and updated MS Access 2007 Database using ADO.Net. Used iSeries Client Access tools to query and view data in FMS - Freight Management System or TMi - Transportation Management Interface, which are on IBM iSeries (AS/400) servers. Utilized Tortoise SVN, a Subversion client for version management. Environment: & Tools: C#, VB.NET, .NET Framework 3.5/4.0, Visual Studio 2008/2010, SQL 2005/2008, WCF, MS-Access 2007, Monticello Software, Windows Service, MS Test, Tortoise SVN, Web Service, ADO.NET, IIS. Confidential, Sharon, PA .Net Developer Responsibilities: Practiced Agile Scrum development through user stories, standup meetings and close interaction with the clients. Involved in Requirements gathering, interacted with a user group on a biweekly basis in making the user stories Utilized MVC Architecture for the development of the project. Created Stored Procedures, Views and User Defined Functions for Data Retrieval and Manipulations. Developed the customized RegEx Set ups forms using Infragistics controls. Designed new SQL tables to accommodate the RegEx setups. Developed the controller classes that control views of winforms and webforms. Created new Grid control to support client side operation like sorting, filtering and searching. Created customized reports for Capital One and First Place bank using SSRS. Created and updated technical specification documents. Extensively utilized Team Foundation Server for code maintenance and bug tracking. Environment: & Tools: Visual Studio 2010, .NET Framework 4.0, Infragistics Controls, C#, VB.NET, WCF, SQL, TFS. 