SUMMARY Over 7+ years of experience in both Manual and Automated Software Quality Assurance Testing of client - server and web-based applications Seasoned practitioner of SCRUM Methodology of Agile development. Extensive understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC). Expertise in White Box Testing, Manual Testing, Automated Testing in Windows and UNIX environments. Expert in using test case management and bug tracking tool Quality Center and taiga.io. Well versed in different scenarios like Quality Assurance, Defect Tracking, System Integration, and Task Scheduling. Have a quick understanding of the FRS / SRS and generate adequate test cases to ensure 100% coverage of requirements. Professional expertise in Smoke Testing, Functional Testing, Positive/ Negative Testing, System Testing, Regression Testing, GUI Software Testing, UI Validation, Web Service Testing, Involved in preparing Requirement Traceability Matrices (RTM) to make sure all the requirements are mapped to test cases. Experience in developing and executing SQL queries to verify the proper insertion, deletion and updates into the Oracle supporting tables. Conducted database tests by executing SQL queries to ensure the data integrity by checking various kinds of constraints. Used CI toolJenkinsand source control system tool GitHub Created strategy and plan forBDDprocess implementation, conducted workshops and delivered training materials. Experience in working with Automation projects using Quality Center (QC/ALM) and QTP, Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven, Cucumber. Experience in usingSeleniumWebDriver, Eclipse and IntelliJ IDEA IDE’s, Java and TestNG, test frameworks in creating test scripts, test suites. Experience in XPath, Firebug, Maven and TEST NG annotations. Experience in writing and executing Automation Test Scripts using Quick Test Professional (QTP)/UFT. Strong analytical and communication skills combined with the ability to work independently under minimal supervision and also perform as an integral part of a team. Experience in communicating with users and business analysts, Project Managers, Developers to understand requirements, business processes for testing and attended regular walkthroughs. Ability to take initiative, prioritize and work independently to meet deadlines. Good team player and also have ability to work independently in a time sensitive environment. Ability to adapt to new environment quickly, strong team player, good communication, good analytical and computation skills, enthusiastic learner, confident, sincere and committed. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing Tools: HP Quick Test Professional/UFT, SOAP UI, Selenium WebDriver, Cucumber, Maven Defect Tracking Tools: Quality Center (HP ALM), www.taiga.io Languages: VB script, HTML 5, XML, CSS, Java, Gherkin, SQL. Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Mac OS, IOS, Android. Databases: My SQL, MS SQL Server, Oracle. Software Packages: Microsoft Office. Browsers: Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Safari. IDEs: Eclipse IDE, IntelliJ IDEA IDE PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Pittsburgh, PA QA Analyst Responsibilities: Participate in the SCRUM discussions and identify the user stories. Work with the project manager and SCRUM Master for bi-weekly sprint planning and testing requirements. Create use cases and define test scripts for the sprint cycle Record test cases and defects in the testing repository www.taiga.io Identify the scripts for Automation testing and manual testing Prepare the scripts for automated testingusing the Selenium WebDriver, TestNG. Used Build Tool Maven, added dependencies in POM for respected jar files. Performed data driven test using Apache POI jars in Selenium WebDriver. Finalized and createdQAautomation framework forBDDusing cucumber - Selenium Execute the Automated tests on the Kasei Test Instance, and record observations around run times, application performance and volume testing. Validate the successful completion of script by querying the database for data populated. Perform manual testing of scripts for application functionality validation Record outcomes to the tracking tool and conduct progress reporting meetings every alternate day with the team to apprise them of bugs and pursue resolution. Retest the application after issue resolution. Conduct Regression test of the application every conclusion of the sprint. Environment: Java, Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven, Eclipse IDE, Oracle 11g Database, Jenkins, SQL Developer Confidential, Boca Raton, FL QA Analyst Responsibilities: Designed test cases and developed test scripts using Java and Selenium WebDriver. Performed Web Services Testing using SOAP UI for Various Web Services Wrote and executed SQL Queries for backend testing and verified the application with multiple browsers using Selenium WebDriver. Recorded steps using Selenium IDE and converted into WebDriver Script when necessary and customized the converted scripts as per requirement. Wrote Test cases in HP ALM and reported Defect whenever found in HPALM. Used Quality Center as Test Repository for Requirements, Test plans. Managed manual test passes/runs with Quality Center (HP ALM). Testing following BDD (Behavior Driven Development) process using Cucumber Wrote WebDriver script in IntelliJ IDE based on TestNG frameworks Involved in all the phases of Manual Testing process and worked closely with Business stakeholders. Executed System Test, Regression Test, User Acceptance Test (UAT) Advocated and successfully implemented Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and test-driven development (TDD) process. Performed Web services testing for Payments API's using SOAP UI. Involved in Database Testing using SQL queries of the Application like checking the Tables in the Database and checking whether the data is moving in their Respective Tables. Environment: Java, Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Cucumber, IntelliJ IDE, UAT, QC (HP ALM), Soap UI, XML, Jenkins, HTML, SQL, Oracle, Windows. Confidential, Chicago, IL QA Analyst Responsibilities: Analyzed Business Requirement Document and Technical Specifications Document to identify. Performed manual and functional testing on various parts of the application and used Quality Center for offshore defect tracking and for onsite defect tracking. Responsible for Manual Testing and Automation Testing. Worked with different modules of HP ALM such as Requirements, Test Plan, Test Lab, Defects module. Tested multiple client server applications coded in C#, .NETin an agile development environment. Experienced in preparation and maintaining of reusableSeleniumscripts, Extensive experience in Functional Testing, Regression Testing, UI usingSelenium. Created test cases for various modules in MS Excel and exported them to Quality Center for Test Case Management. Reviewed extensive SQL Queries with complex multi-table joins and nested queries. Conducted system regression tests after every new build using Selenium Experience in performing end-to-end User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Set-up, co-ordinate & conduct system & UAT testing with Business Analysts and end-field users after the applications were all set. Conducted reviews with clients and User Acceptance Testing teams. Involved in Automation Infrastructure Development usingSelenium Used SQL queries to validate the data between the backend and the front end. Performed rigorous manual testing such Functional Testing, Smoke testing, Integration testing, UAT Testing, Backend Testing, unit testing, Regression Testing, End to End Testing and System Testing. Actively participated in Walkthroughs and Daily status report meetings. Environment: ASP.NET, .Net, Selenium WebDriver, Windows, SQL Server, Quality Center, XML, HTTP. Confidential, Seattle, WA QA Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in creating test plans and developed test cases and executed them Participated in design review/walkthrough sessions with team members and provided feedback on UI issues Used SOAPUI tool and XML language for testing Web services. Developed test cases for Functional and Regression Testing for the applicationunder test. Automated test cases using QTP and enhanced scripts in QTP using different checkpoints, parameterization of data and inserting synchronization points Used Reusable actions to avoid lengthy test scripts Used Descriptive Programming for object identification and created and maintained Function Libraries in early phases of the application when designs had changed and application snapshot was not ready. Worked with Business Users to develop tests on Business Process Testing Utilized Mercury Quality Center (QC) to log defects and manage changes in requirements Used Quality Center (QC) to run scripts in batch Wrote and distributed reports to describe automation program evaluation problems found, corrections needed, and problem areas. Worked with Business Users and other testers to identify the test cases best suited for automation Environment: QTP, QC, Oracle, Java, BPT, VB Scripting, Soap UI, Jenkins, SQL, HTML, XML. Confidential, Bellevue, WA QA Tester Responsibilities: Involved in creating Test Plans and created Test Cases to test the Screens and workflows of application for Quality Assurance. Provided test status reports on weekly basis to the project manager. Wrote and executed test cases manually as per the specification documents. Involved in preparing the Automation Design document, identifying the test cases to be automated for Regression Testing using QTP. Designed and maintained test cases manually in excel spreadsheet as well as exported test cases from MS-Excel sheet to QC. Performed data driven testing and parameterization using QTP. Involved in user accepting testing and UI testing for application under test. Conducted regression testing on new builds/versions. Created and maintained SQL Scripts to perform back-end testing on the oracle database. Executed test cases through Quality Center and reported defects in QC. Preparation and execution of test scripts using JMeter and SOAP UI tool to perform Web Services testing. Developed and executed test cases test Scenarios and followed-up defects using Quality Center. Environment: QTP, Quality Center, SQL, .NET, Oracle, Windows, VB Script. 