SUMMARY Over 6 years of experience in Software Testing with exposure to the full development cycle from requirements. Extensively experienced in formulating Test Plans, Test Cases, Test Scenarios, and Test Approach. Proficient in developing use cases, user interface specifications, and user requirement specification documents. Experienced in both Manual and Automation testing of the applications. Good working knowledge of development process such as Waterfall and Agile methodology. Experienced in different Types of Testing - Integration, System, Functional, GUI, Regression, Sanity, Smoke and User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Extensively experienced in JIRA, HP Quality Center and HP ALM. Experienced in developing Test Plans and Test Scripts for Automation Testing using HP ALM/Quality Center. Good Knowledge in using HP ALM/Quality Center to track, report, and manage defect. Expertise in writing SQL queries to perform Back-end testing. Experienced working with continuous integration tools like Jenkins and Hudson. Proficient with building automation test suites using Java and Selenium WebDriver. Experienced in performing Data driven testing using Selenium. Hands on experience in Develop Automation Scripts, Execution and Analysis Test Results using Hybrid, Keyword Driven Framework and Data Driven Framework in Selenium. Experienced in using Apache POI to read data from external sources to feed locators into the test script. Proficient in using GitHub as a source repository system to share code within the office as well as with the team in overseas. Experienced in using Jenkin as a Continuous Integration server to configure with GitHub and Maven. Ability to coordinate the UAT testing by guiding the users during UAT, logging the defects encountered during UAT. Ability to setup trouble shooting sessions to resolve the issues. Ability to attend QA daily meetings, proposals for resolving the conflicts and prepare Weekly reports and build status reports. TECHNICAL SKILLS Software Packages:  SharePoint, Visual SourceSafe, MS Visio, Global, IIS, MS Office Tools Testing/performance Tools:  Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, JMeter, HP ALM, Jira Build Tools:  Maven, Jenkins Web Services Testing tool:  SOAP UI Programming Languages / Scripting:  SQL, Java/J2EE, Visual Basic, VB Script, JavaScript, XML, HTML Database:  SQL Server, Oracle, DB2, MS Access, MongoDB Servers:  Apache, Tomcat, Web Logic Server Operating Systems:  Microsoft Windows, Linux/UNIX, Mac OS IDE:  Eclipse, IntelliJ Idea PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Washington, D.C Selenium Automation Test Engineer Responsibilities: Analyzed requirements, organized and supervised formal reviews of development documentation (requirements and design documents, system test plans). Developed test plans and test strategy documents. Involved in peer reviews of the team’s test plans and test cases. Identified of problems, risk rating, problem reporting and referral to appropriate person or team. Maintained Traceability Matrix for requirements to test case and created a data load. Recorded thedeviations found during the development cycle and communicated to the client counterparts. Analyzed test results reports and test cases results and determined causes, and created detailed and comprehensive defects reports. Participated in the test environment setup ensuring that the facilities, test tools and scripts are in place to successfully perform the required testing effort by Regression Team. Configured HP ALM in Agile environment. Created, executed Test Sets and maintained documentation of test results using HP ALM. Monitored and tracked defects/risks and managed through resolution using HP ALM. Performed complex queries for data validation in SQL statements. Facilitated enhancement and maintained the current Test Environment in Eclipse using Java. Enhanced regression test cases to implement complex testing scenarios, increased permeations of functionality testing, and increased code coverage using Selenium WebDriver. Performed functional test automation and execution processes in a web environment using data-driven development with Selenium WebDriver. Enhanced the current Hybrid Framework using Selenium custom functions, for functional and regression automation testing. Monitored the bugs as and when developers fixed the bugs, communicated Testing Status to the management and to the Test team using conference calls. Coordinated the UAT testing by guiding the users during UAT. Interacted with the developers to get an estimate and to resolve technical issues. Created several custom reports from Test management tool those were helpful for management to understand overall Testing status of the entire project. Attended QA daily meetings, proposals for resolving the conflicts. Prepared Weekly reports and build status reports. Used to setup trouble shooting sessions to resolve the issues. Environment: Selenium WebDriver, Selenium Grid, MS Excel, Unix, Java, XML, HP ALM, JIRA, TestNG, Maven, Jenkins, Oracle, SQL Server, C, C++, Eclipse, IntelliJ Idea, Apache Tomcat Browser Stack, Sauce Lab. Confidential, Livonia, Michigan Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Reviewed of Documents like Software requirement Specification, Rapid Design Document, High Level Design, Detail Design Document, Acceptance Test Cases, Integration Test Cases, Unit Test Cases. Analyzed various documents and use Cases to prepare the detailed Test Plan. Tested the application compatibility in all versions of Netscape and Internet Explorer browsers by automating the Test cases. Involved in creating Use cases using MS Visio. Involved in attending all agile scrum meeting and making updated report. Performed Black box testing and Grey box testing. Performed GUI, Functional, System, Smoke, Positive and Negative, Integration, Regression, UAT and Back End testing. Added requirements to Requirement traceability in requirement module of HP ALM. Reported the bugs and the test results in the HP ALM. Executed extensive end-end test scenarios as part of regression testing and decreased the bug escape ratio to production using HP ALM. Wrote SQL queries to perform Backend Testing. Customized Selenium API to suit in testing environment. Involved in developing and executing automation Regression testing and System testing using Selenium. Performed Data driven testing to validate the components displayed on the website using Selenium. Created various data tables based on created templates for different states to execute batch files in Selenium. Performed black box testing, database testing, and web-based testing on several test phases. Developed components for each transaction used in the test script or scenario by using Selenium. Involved in using Maven build tools to manage framework dependency jar files. Involved in using Apache POI to read data from external sources to feed locators into the test script. Used GitHub as a source repository system to share code within the office as well as with the team in overseas. Involved in forecasting the Test numbers to ensure the test report metrics was accurate. Tracked the progress of system testing and provided daily status to Test Manager. Accelerated troubleshooting by collaborating with Developers. Attended regular project meetings and weekly team meeting to discuss the project Milestones. Involved in meetings and discussions for setting targets and goals to be achieved in the QA process. Environment: Java, HTML, XML, Java Script, C/C++, MS Visio, Selenium WebDriver, HP ALM, MS Office, MS Excel, J2EE, Oracle, Windows, UNIX. Confidential, New York, NY Automation Tester Responsibilities: Involved in working with Business Analysts, Programmers and Business users through the life cycle of the project. Prepared Test estimation and Test metrics documents. Involved in developing and executing comprehensive system test plans and scripts, and facilitating testing across multiple departments. Created manual test cases and test suites for different modules of the application. Managed and controlled Requirements, Test Design, Execution and Defect management and tracking process using Quality Center/ALM. Helped Quality Center/ALM Administrator to maintain users, groups, domain, projects, and policies. Set up test cases, test sets, and defects in Quality Center/ALM. Scheduled the script execution, published results and reported defects as required in Quality Center/ALM. Wrote PL/SQL statement to extract, update data from the tables. Performed through Database functionality tests and verified the Business Logic Implementation by constructing and executing several SQL statements. Involved in developing components for each transaction used in the test script or scenario by using Selenium. Involved in Regression Testing for every changes in modules. Logged the defects encountered during UAT. Designed Critical Reports as per the business rules. Performed Meeting with the Project Manager and Business Analysts for understanding the requirement. Environment: Quality Center/ALM, Selenium, Windows, UNIX, C/C++, SQL, Java, J2EE, VBScript, VB.Net, HTML, XML, MS Office, MS Excel. 