SUMMARY Around 5 years of IT experience as DevOps/ AWS Cloud Engineer in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) core area such as Design, and Deployment of Web based Enterprise Applications using AWS Cloud OPS Resources. Involved in Linux administration activities like troubleshooting of regular issues, configuration issues, applying patches, kernel upgrades, package management, diagnosing resource utilization and file system issues. Strong knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies such as Agile, Scrum Models. Experienced in Installing, Upgrading, Patching, Configuring and Administrating Red Hat Linux. Experience in branching, tagging and maintaining version across the environment using SCM tools like Subversion, GIT to access control strategies. Extensively worked on Cloud - bees Jenkins for continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Involved in writing theMaven and Gradle scripts for the configuration of J2EE applications. Strong Knowledge in creating Jenkins Continuous Integration and for End to End automation for build and deployments. Expertise in scripting for automation, and monitoring using Shell, Python & Perl script. Written reusable scripts from scratch for new projects and for new modules within existing projects. Managed all the bugs and changes into a production environment using the Jira tracking tool. Involved in setting up JIRA as defect tracking system and configured various workflows, customizations and plugins for the JIRA bug/issue tracker. Worked on many AWS Cloud resources which includes EC2, S3 VPC, Lambda, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud FormationAWSConfig, Autos calling, Cloud Front, IAM, Route 53. Create multiple groups and set permission policies for various groups inAWS. By using security permissions. Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deploying (UDeploy) the code through web application servers Apache Tomcat/JBOSS. Wrote Ansible Playbooks with Python SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Expertise in Querying RDBMS such as Oracle, MYSQLandSQLServer by using PL/SQLfor data integrity. Used Splunk and CloudWatch for monitoring/metric collection for applications in a Cloud based environment. Delivered architecture designs and solutions for public, private and hybrid clouds covering the cloud architecture tiers and portfolios of cloud services IaaS, PaaS, SaaS. Having experience Issues found in Sonar Qube on wrong code or code paths of issues can be detected by navigating bugs. Closely worked with Developers and Quality Analysts to address project requirements. Able to effectively manage time and prioritize multiple projects. Strong ability to troubleshoot any issues generated while building, deploying in production. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: RHEL, Ubuntu/CentOS, Windows  2000/2003/2008  Languages: Bash, Python, Ruby, PowerShell CI Tools: JENKINS, Bamboo CM Tools: CHEF, Ansible Databases: MySQL, MongoDB, SQL Server Scripts: Shell, Bash, Python, PowerShell, Perl, Ruby Version Control Tools: GIT, SVN, Bitbucket. Cloud Services: AWS (EC2, S3, Lambda, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch) Web/App servers: Web logic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS. Deployment: IBM Urban code Deploy, U-Release, UBuild Build Tools: ANT, MAVEN, Gradle PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Morrisville, NC Sr DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Created and maintained pipeline continuous integration (CICD) using tools Jenkins over different environments to facilitate an agile development process which is automated and repeatable, enabling teams to safely deploy code many times a day. Provided hands-on technical leadership and expertise in setting up and managing theSCMprocess and automated tools for system projects. Responsible for design and maintenance of the GIT Repositories, to views and the access control strategies. Setup Jenkins tool to integrate the JAVA project and maintained Jenkins with continuous integration and deployment. Maintained Cloud-bees Jenkins pipelines to deploy into production and non-production environments. Creating some build plugins by using a configure to integrating with Git, Maven, Ant. Setting up continuous integration and formal builds using Jenkins with Artifactory repository. SonarQube provides the capability of healthy application through Artifacts stored in Nexus repository. Web API can be used to check weather application is healthy. Designed and implemented AWS EC2 Server setup and deployment, build, maintenance, and configuration of various AWS resources like, EC2, S3, Lambda, ECS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancers, VPC, and IAM Security Groups that are utilized for different environments like dev, testing, Production. Delivered architecture designs and solutions for public, private and hybrid clouds covering the cloud architecture tiers and portfolios of cloud services IaaS, PaaS, SaaS. Worked on Serverless cloud resource Lambda to configure and triggering files, to generate stacks and templets of corn job that will trigger every 30 minutes and for every corn job SNS will notifies you. Worked with different scripting languages such as PowerShell, Ruby, Bash,groovy, Python as a part of writing scripts for the automation tasks. Having knowledge on Ansible playbooks and Configure Systems to Specific State. By Using Ansible Templets to create configuration files to Hosts. Creating Docker images, and handling multiple images in various of Docker hub. Created Docker image of the application and used AWS ECS container management service. Used Nagios, and Cloud Watch for monitoring/metric collection for applications in a Cloud based environment. Integrated Docker container orchestration framework using Kubernetes by creating pods, config Maps, deployments. Administer, secure, and maintain multiple Kubernetes clusters to support a global service. Worked on Microservice (RabbitMQ and Zabbix) framework in legacy applications in disaster recovery which managed in production support. Every sprint collaborating with scrum meeting for releasing product in production level. Managing executive Customer relationships and key business stakeholders & delivering IT Strategy & Consulting services. Environment: Jenkins, Maven, Ant, AWS (Ec2, S3, Lambda, Cloud-Formation Templets), AWS-VPC (Auto-scaling, Subnets, Gateway), SQL, Python, Bash, Nagios and SonarQube, Agile, GitHub, Docker. Confidential, CA Associate DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Hands on experience of Build & Deployment phase and usage of Continuous Integration (CI/CD) tools, build configuration, change history for releases, Maintenance of build system, automation, managing, configuration. Worked on source control Version like Bitbucket and its integration tool like Bamboo in build environment Responsible for building/deploying consistently repeatablebuild/deployments to company production and non-production environments using Bamboo. Involved in writing Maven build scripts for generating Java based Artifacts such as JAR, WAR and EAR Involved in setting up JIRA as defect tracking system and configured various workflows, customizations and plugins for bug tracker. Used Maven Nexus Repository to upload the build Artifacts after a successful build. Responsible for User Management and End-to-End automation of Build and Deployment process using Jenkins and U-deploy. Configure a repository and make sureIBM Urban Code Buildhas access from ANT/Maven tools. Create a job that uses Ant to build the project artifacts, run JUnit tests, create anIBM Urban Code Deploycomponent version (6.1.1) Stored deployment artifacts more securely to enable traceability using IBM Urban Code Deploy. Integrate with U-Build, U-Deploy and U-release tools to automatically deploy, test and promote new builds. Responsible for Administering Artifactory server which includes install, upgrade, maintenance of repositories, performance tuning, troubleshooting issues and maintenance. Maintained build related scripts developed in shell for Maven builds. Created and modified build configuration files including POM.xml. Experienced in Administrating, troubleshooting, configuring and deploying enterprise applications in JBoss and Apache-Tomcat. Responsible of installing, updating, diagnosing and troubleshooting the issue tracking and project management application, learning agile methodology byJIRA, Bitbucket. Confidential Build/SCM Engineer Responsibilities: Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement CICD pipeline by managing their plugins. Maintained build related scripts developed in ANT, Shell. Modified build configuration files including Ant's build.xml. Involved in writing Java API for hosting web-applications. Exported SQL data into Elastic search to allow much faster and scalable user searches from the database. Experienced in authoring pom.xml files, performing releases with the Maven release plugin, Modernization of Java projects and managing Maven repositories. Experienced in Administrating, troubleshooting, configuring and deploying enterprise applications in JBoss and Apache-Tomcat. Researched and implemented code coverage and unit test plug-ins with Maven and integrated with GitHub. Used Maven dependency management system to deploy snapshot and release artifacts to Nexus to share artifacts across projects. Experience in troubleshooting the build issues during the Jenkins build process. Strong knowledge/experience in creating Jenkins CI pipelines, and troubleshooting issues along the CI/CD Pipelines. Participated in the release cycle of the product which involves environments like Development, QA, UAT and Production. Environment: s: Jenkins, ANT, Maven, Java J2EE Applications, GitHub, Nexus, U-deploy. Confidential Jr System Administration Responsibilities: Performed installation, configuration, upgrades, Package administration and support for Linux Systems on client side using Red hat satellite network server. Worked on RedHat Linux installation, configuring and maintenance of applications on this environment. Performed automated installations of Operating Systems using kickstart for Linux. Package management using RPM, YUM and Update in Red Hat Linux Installation. Scheduled users to perform High Performance Computing activities on the Linux cluster. Worked on Kernel tuning and Kernel patching. Troubleshooting Backup and Restore Problems, Creation of LVMs on SAN using Linux utilities. Monitored overall system performance, performed user management, system updates and disk & storage management. Network installation via centralized yum server for client package update. Experience in using various network protocols like HTTP, UDP, FTP, and TCP/IP.