SUMMARY 4+ years of professional experience working in a multi - cloud environment, having thorough expertise in the Confidential Cloud Platform and Amazon Web Services. Implemented and orchestrated the setup of the entire infrastructure singlehandedly for the client using GCP’s Kubernetes Engine, Compute Engine and Cloud Datastore. Extensive expertise with Docker for application management and orchestrating multiple Docker containers using Kubernetes with Terraform for resource provisioning. Highly competitive mindset with key competencies in AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Serverless Applications using Lambda, Dynamo DB, CloudFormation, Terraform, Confidential App Engine as well as a working knowledge on Microsoft Azure’s cloud. Proficiency in writing reliable and highly scalable applications in the cloud using machine learning APIs and integrating 3rd party modules seamlessly into the code. Capable of working with various implementations and layers of system automation using Python, Shell Scripting, Power-Shell and a working knowledge of Ruby. Extremely well versed with Linux/ UNIX administration as well as middleware server administration and monitoring application deployments, security and performance. Adept at implementing various configurations and resource provisioning with Infrastructure as a Code (IaC) methodologies such as ’push’ and ’pull’. Have an extensive experience working in an agile development environment in DevOps team implementing release automation, unit test automation and code reviews to deliver end to end CI/ CD products in open source environments. Expert in creating complex web applications using Python, Django, NodeJS and PHP as well as Linux Server installation, configuration, monitoring and troubleshooting. Experienced in baking AMIs and creating Docker images using Packer, Gitlab-runner and Kubernetes, having hands-on experience with application deployments running in a Kubernetes cluster and other applications/instances running on the GCP and AWS. Monitored databases for optimal performance through SQL profiler, Wait stats, DMV, DMF, Activity monitor, extended Events, Error Log, Windows Performance Monitor. Expert at implementing a CI/CD pipeline with Jenkins and have hands-on experience with build tools like Maven, Ant and Gradle. Deployed Jenkins Continuous Integration tool by connecting to Linux EC2 Instance, downloaded and Installed Jenkins, then Installed AMAZON EC2 plugin. Design and develop a continuous deployment pipeline integrating Vagrant, Git, Jenkins and Chef across geographically separated zones in AWS. Demonstrated proficiency in using automation tools like Ansible and Puppet that facilitate cloud provisioning, configuration and deployment management. Experience on design of VM Storage configure shared storage, configure VM disk storage and AWS disk encryption to provide redundancy and prevent bottlenecks. Expertise in managing AWS cloud resources EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, RDS, Elastic Beanstalk, CloudWatch, Cloud Trail, Lambda, Dynamodb and IAM. Have the experience in Blue / Green Testing methodologies. Extensive experience in the migration from on-perm to Cloud using deployment pipelines and have been exposed to the entire Software Delivery Lifecycle. Abided by the practices such as limiting time spent on operational work, blameless postmortems and proactive identification of potential outages factor into iterative improvement that is key to both product quality and dynamic day-to-day work. Troubleshooting and fixing day-to-day problems related to operating system, application, servers, desktops and responding to tickets. Experienced in Waterfall, Agile/Scrum, lean methodologies of software development and Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD) practices. Extremely good interpersonal skills, charismatic outlook, proactive approach to overwhelming challenges and the ability to solve complex problems with relative ease. TECHNICAL SKILLS Cloud Environments: AWS, GCP, Azure, Open Stack, Digital Ocean AWS Services: EC2, EBS, Lambda, CloudFormation, CloudWatch, VPC, RDS. GCP Services: GCE, App Engine, GKE, Cloud Functions, Firestore. Automation Tools: Ansible, Chef, Jenkins, Docker, Terraform, Kubernetes VCS: GitHub, SVN, CVS, Bitbucket, Gitlab, GitRunner Build Tools: Ant, Maven, Gradle, Hudson, Jenkins. SCM: Puppet, Chef, Ansible, Docker. Monitoring Tools: Nagios, Monit, AWS Cloud Watch. Scripting: Python, Shell/ Bash, PowerShell, Go, Java, PHP, Ruby. DBMS: Oracle, Mongodb, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, Cassandra OS: MacOS, Linux (Ubuntu, Mint, openSUSE), Windows, Android, Zephyr Web Servers: Web logic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, SSIS. Preferred Languages: Python, Java, Go, C++. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, CA Site Reliability Engineer Responsibilities: Keep the ship sailing by monitoring and supporting the entire IT infrastructure environment Treat IT operations as a value center that helped avoid downtime and maximize revenue and service availability as well as use managed services to implement the DevOps philosophy. Managed the packaging, release staging, and approval process with tools like JFrog. Implemented the build and continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD) tools like Jenkins and CircleCI extensively as well as used Terraform and Ansible to enable teams automate and manage configurations across infrastructure and applications ultimately fulfilling Confidential ’s automate, automate, automate SRE philosophy, Leverage the core services of the Confidential Cloud Platform like Confidential App Engine (Flexible) and Confidential Kubernetes engine in turn helping the developers in the manage the Docker containers in the underlying infrastructure and fix some bugs that inevitably occur. Implemented a uniquely innovative solution on how shifting the Kubernetes Engine deployment workflow can help the overall agility in deployment to the developers. It turned out to increase the deployment rate by 17%. Troubleshooted multi-tier applications using preexisting solutions on the marketplace namely Jenkins on Kubernetes engine, implementing distributed load balancing and deploying Memcached on the same. Work with the team to develop, maintain and communicate the current development schedules, timelines and development status. Deploy and run applications using Docker containers in order to ensure that the infrastructure has no bottlenecks. Identify, gather, monitor and monitor response for key performance analysis, logs and alerts and provide engineering solutions to make everyone’s life easier. Troubleshooted multi-tier applications using preexisting solutions on the marketplace namely Jenkins on Kubernetes engine, implementing distributed load balancing and deploying Memcached on the same. Responsible for the big picture of how Confidential systems relate to each other, we use a breadth of tools and approaches to solve a broad spectrum of problems. Abided by the practices such as limiting time spent on operational work, blameless postmortems and proactive identification of potential outages factor into iterative improvement that is key to both product quality and interesting and dynamic day-to-day work. Scale systems sustainably through mechanisms like automation, and evolve systems by pushing for changes that improve reliability and velocity. Support services before they go live through activities such as system design consulting, developing software platforms and frameworks, capacity planning and launch reviews. Engage in and improve the whole lifecycle of services rom inception and design, through deployment, operation and refinement. Practice sustainable incident response and blameless postmortems. Maintain services once they are live by measuring and monitoring availability, latency and overall system health. Environment: - Subversion, CircleCI, Gcloud CLI, Rex Relay, Confidential Compute Engine, Pivotal Tracker, Terraform, JFrog, Firebase, FireStore, Confidential Kubernetes Engine, Docker, Mesosphere, PeopleSoft, Gradle, Yaml, Go, CouchBase, Yum, Auxon, Packer, JumpCloud. Confidential, FL AWS DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Maintained multiple servers in QA and Prod environments. Handled multiple incidents during the process of Lift and Shift. Worked on AWS API Gateway for custom domain and Record sets in Amazon Route53 for applications hosted in AWS Environment. Extensive experience focusing on services like VPC, EBS, AMI, IAM, S3, SNS, SQS, Amazon Glacier, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation. Day to day management/monitoring/troubleshooting of multi-tier applications using Chef and AppD in Dev, QA, Prod environments. Experienced in successful Lift and Shift of existing on-premises applications on AWS. Created and managed automation framework for the migration of servers and applications to Cloud Platform. Deploy and run applications using Docker containers. Install/configure/maintain the Linux servers, EFS. Experience with Terraform to build infrastructure as a code. Provisioned EC2 instances, EFS, RabbitMQ using Terraform. Provisioned and Configured CouchBase. Implementing Load balancing for the application using the F5 Load balancer. Encrypted AMIs for PCI account using KMS encryption. Working experience with f5 Load Balancers and Akamai. Developed, maintained, and distributed release notes for each scheduled release. Maintain QA and Production configuration using automation tools. Hands on experience with a configuration tool like Chef. Investigate and contribute to solving issues in production environments. Used Chef to deploy consistent infrastructure code across multiple environments. Carried Deployments and builds on various environments using CI tool. Leveraged automaton framework and work on migration projects in the Migration Operations. Environment: - Git, Apache Tomcat, Jenkins, Maven, Confluence, Artifactory, Jira, Chef, CouchBase, Python, Yum, Rundeck, Terraform, Splunk, AppD, Red Hat Linux, Keyblade, Nimbus, Akamai, Atlantis, ServiceNow Incident and Change Management. Confidential DevOps Infrastructure Engineer Responsibilities: Actively working with team members in reviewing the code for compatibility issues. Worked with two development teams where there are multiple software releases, implemented release schedules for PROD and Non-PROD, created future releases calendar and schedules. Worked in migrating the build scripts from ANT to Maven, writing the pom.xml from the scratch with the help of ant build scripts. Troubleshooting and fixing day-to-day problems related to operating system, application, servers, desktops and responding to tickets. Worked in the maintenance of different network services such as TCP/IP, NFS, DNS, NTP, Auto mounts, Send mail and print servers as per the client's requirement. Deployed Jenkins Continuous Integration tool by connecting to Linux EC2 Instance, downloaded and Installed Jenkins, then Installed AMAZON EC2 plugin. Design and develop a continuous deployment pipeline integrating Vagrant, Git, Jenkins and Chef across geographically separated hosting zones in AWS. Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT, GRADLE as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments, experience in JavaScript development in troubleshooting, debugging and building the applications. Carried Deployments and builds on various environments using CI tool. Worked in identifying build errors in the system and identify the build issue and escalate it to the concerned team after careful analysis, work and coordinate with them to get the fix in the release. Environment: - Shell, XML, Jenkins, Maven, Git, Puppet, ANT, UNIX, Tomcat, Linux and SQL. 