SUMMARY Over 8+ years of IT experience with 4 years of experience as Hadoop Administration and hands on experience as Linux System Admin & Informatica administrator. Hands on experience in installation, configuration, security and monitoring of Hadoop Cluster on RHEL 6.x. Expertise in configuring Hadoop Security using Kerberos with LDAP/AD. Experience in installing, configuring, and managing of Hadoop ecosystem components like HDFS, Yarn, HBase, Oozie, Hive, Impala, Spark, Sqoop, Pig and Flume, HUE, Ranger. Expertise with Hortonworks Hadoop platform (HDFS, Hive, oozie, Sqoop, Yarn) Installed, configured and maintained Hadoop cluster in High Availability environment. Expertise in setting up and configuring Backup, Recovery, Replication and Disaster Recovery procedures in the cluster. Setup HDFS directories and permissions for different applications. Experience with standard automation and deployment tool Puppet. Experience with Runbook Automation(RBA) workflow. Expertise as Informatica Administrator to setup new Informatica environments and Upgrade existing Informatica environments to new versions. Expertise in installing, configuring and maintaining Informatica Power Center (9.x & 10.x) versions. Hands on experience with Creating folders, Groups, Roles, Users in Admin console and granting them permissions. Good experience with change management, deploying code from DEV to TEST and PROD - using deployment groups in Informatica Repository manager. Excellent knowledge and experience in data warehouse development life cycle, requirement analysis, dimensional modeling, Repository management and administration. Knowledge about Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC), Agile, Application Maintenance Change Process (AMCP). Experience in computer system maintenance, systems security, software upgrade and network administration of servers running Linux (Redhat Linux 5.X 6.X on HW like HP, Dell, & Cisco) 24x7 Technical support and troubleshooting in Performance Monitoring of CPU, Memory, Disks, Network using various monitoring tools like Nagios XI & Cacti. Experience in troubleshooting of issues with applications, network, user hardware, naming services etc. Providing support to technicians on Network Configuration, Performance Tuning, Security Hardening Technical support, testing, troubleshooting and configuration of naming services like NIS, DNS etc. on Linux and Solaris Experience in architecting, setting up data centers and migration of applications Strong analytical, diagnostics, troubleshooting skills to consistently deliver productive technological solutions Implement Open SSH based security for the Redhat, AIX and Solaris machine Experience in System performance tuning Configuration. A good team player with strong communication skills and an inquisitive mind to learn more Experience in troubleshooting and supporting complex technical environments while maintaining a professional, business-focused attitude and courteous manner towards clients, partners and peers. Ability to manage and prioritize multiple related projects, including troubleshooting, operations, and maintenance of the enterprise in a team environment Expert proficiency within VMware Virtual Center, vRealize Automation, including new VM creation, modification, and deletion Experience working with ticketing systems RT and Remedy Knowledge with SAN and NAS data storage technologies Ability to learn new and different technologies to a working depth quickly Participated in 24x7 on-call rotation, off-hour production problem resolution activities A self-motivated, responsible and reliable team player with a set of strong technical skills. Excellent analytical, interpersonal and communication skills. Enthusiasm in learning new technologies. TECHNICAL SKILLS Big Data Technologies: Hortonworks 2.5/2.4/2.2, Apache Hadoop, HDFS, Pig, Hive, Sqoop, HBase, OOZIE, Kerberos, Spark, HUE, Ranger, Zookeeper. RDBMS: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/, SQL Server  2012/2008/2005 , DB2 10.1/9.7 FP1, Sybase 15.x. Operating Systems: HP-UX 10.x, 11.x, Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 8, 9, 10, AIX 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, Red Hat Linux 6.x/5.x, AWS EC2, MS SQL Server, Windows 98/ME/NT/2000/XP Languages: C, C++, Java, XML, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, Python ETL Tools: Informatica Power Center  10.1/9.6.1/9.1/8. x, Power Exchange/Power Connect, Data Analyst, Metadata Manager, IDQ, Informatica MDM HUB 9.6.1/ 9.7 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, St Louis, MO Sr. Hadoop Administrator Responsibilities: Installed, configured, upgraded, and applied patches and bug fixes for Prod, Test and Dev Servers. Installed/Configured/Maintained Hadoop clusters in dev/test/UAT/Prod environments. Install, configure and administer Hdfs, Hive, Ranger, Pig, HBase, Ooozie, Sqoop, Spark and Yarn. Worked on the installation and configuration of Hadoop HA Cluster. Involved in capacity planning and design of Hadoop clusters. Setting up alerts in Ambari for the monitoring of Hadoop Clusters. Setting up security authentication using Kerberos security. Creating and dropping of users, granting and revoking permissions to users/Policies as and when required using Ranger. Commission and decommission the data nodes from cluster. Write and modify UNIX shell scripts to manage HDP environments. Installed and configured Flume, Hive, Sqoop and Oozie on the Hadoop cluster. Administer, configure and performance tuning for Spark applications Create directories and setup appropriate permissions for different applications. Backup tables in Hbase to Hdfs dir’s using export utility. Involved in planning and implementation of Hadoop cluster Upgrade. Installation, Configuration and administration of HDP on Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.6 Used Sqoop to import data into HDFS from Oracle database. Detailed analysis of system and application architecture components per functional requirements. Review and monitor system and instance resources to insure continuous operations (i.e., database storage, memory, CPU, network usage, and I/O contention) On call support for 24x7 Production job failures and resolve the issue in timely manner. Developed UNIX scripts for scheduling the delta loads and master loads using Auto sys Scheduler. Have deep and thorough understanding of ETL tools and how they can be applied in a Big Data environment. Troubleshoots with problems regarding the databases, applications and development tools. Confidential, Silver Spring, MD Hadoop Administrator Responsibilities: Worked on evaluating, architecting, installation/setup of Hortonworks 2.1/1.8 Big Data ecosystem which includes Apache Hadoop HDFS, Pig, Hive and Sqoop. Perform configuration, administration and monitoring of Hadoop clusters. Managing HDFS directories permissions for applications. Maintaining and Monitoring of Hadoop Cluster. Plan and implement the upgrades in Hadoop. Responsible for adding, creating new users, groups and setup home directories and appropriate access restrictions to directories using Ranger Managing the filesystem which include creating backups of HDFS, creating new file systems. Detailed analysis of system and application architecture components as per functional requirements. Worked on installation and configuration of Hadoop HA cluster. Responsible for creating repository users, user groups, giving privileges to the users, granting users with access to the repository folders. Responsible for maintaining repository backups and their restorations. Responsible for migrations from Development repository to the QA and Prod repositories. Bench Mark testing of Hardware and Informatica Power Center mappings to calculate the load times for batch processing and tuning the mappings. Installed and Configured Informatica Power Center on Client and Server Machines and Configure Informatica Server and Registered Servers. Install and configure Power Exchange for Oracle and SQL server. Implemented Type II Slowly Changing Dimension methodology for accessing the full history of customers. Created complex mappings using Unconnected Lookup, Sorter, Aggregator, dynamic Lookup, Filter, Update Strategy, and Router transformations. Worked with Memory cache for static and dynamic cache for the better throughput of sessions containing Rank, Lookup, Joiner, Sorter and Aggregator transformations. Worked with the DBA to improve Informatica session performance and query performance by collecting statistics and defining relevant indexes on target tables. Created Data Flow Mappings to extract data from source system and Loading to staging area. Analyzed the Source data and developed the code to extract the data and implemented in the informatica. Extensively worked on Filter, Router, Sequence Generator, Look Ups, Update Strategy, Joiner, Source Qualifier, Expression, Sorter, and Aggregator. Worked on various tasks like Session, E-Mail task and Command task. Used mapplets, parameters and variables in mappings as per the requirement. Used versioning and shared folders for better control on Informatica jobs among the team and across different projects. Worked on slowly changing dimension Type2. Involved in performance tuning of the process at mapping, session, source level and at target level. Support Production job failures and resolve the issue in timely manner. Troubleshoot the Productions failure and provide root cause analysis. Worked on emergency code fixes to Production. Involved in testing by using Informatica workflow manager and monitor, etc. and extensive testing on log files to detect errors. Tested different data load databases by comparing source and target table counts and tested Informatica data loads from database to database. Developed UNIX scripts for scheduling the delta loads and master loads using Autosys Scheduler. Confidential, Hicksville, NY Linux Systems Administrator Responsibilities: Following corporate procedures, creating/modifying/closing accounts for Linux/Windows systems using centralized authentication (Active Directory, NIS, LDAP) systems and shadow files. Resolving tickets related to logon issues and resetting password frequently. Building and configuring servers using PXE boot with kickstart and using HP's Server Automation tool for automated builds. Resolving issues with OS deployments, kickstart failures. Installing, updating and maintaining software on Linux systems with yum and rpm to maintain secure environment. Setting up automounts for home directories in different domains. Monitor the availability and health of the infrastructure and applications across multiple data centers using Nagios XI. Responding to alerts generated by Nagios and Solar Winds in timely fashion. Creating Logical volumes on NAS, DAS, and SAN storage also extending/reducing logical volume. Resolving network & DNS related issues. Performance tuning on slow systems. Ensuing backups and restoring data when needed using NetBackup 7.6 Installing LAMP stack and resolving connectivity issues. Troubleshooting and maintaining of TCP/IP, Apache HTTP/S, SMTP, and DNS applications. Performing NIC bonding on Linux Systems for redundancy. Working on Security related projects such as Vulnerability Management and remediation which brought tremendous improvements in securing our computing environment. Building and automating VMWare operations on ESXI 5.5 with Vcenter, Vmotion, Vshpere. Performing P2V conversion and migrating applications to cloud. Proving level 1, 2, and level 3 support on Linux Systems in general. Working closely with other technical groups. Taking ownership of problems/issues/tickets until resolution. Confidential Oracle DBA/Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the analysis, design, build, and testing phase of the life cycle for the project. Developed PL/SQL packages to capture end of day transactions. Implemented UTL HTTP oracle built in package to acquire data from external websites. Preparation of design specifications document. Involved in designing the database, identification of the objects and creating tables. Designed and created database objects such as Tables, Views and Indexes. Tested and corrected errors and refined changes to data base. Implementing Database Security, Management of role-based security. Wrote scripts for Loading Data using SQL*Loader and Import/Export Assisting the developers in tuning the SQL for optimized performance. Handling day to day activities along with schema and space management. Creating primary database storage structures (tablespaces, datafiles, tables, indexes etc) Planning for storage spaces requirements and placing them for optimum I/O performance. Cloning databases using scripts as well as HOTBACKUP. Extensively used Explicit Cursors in stored procedures. Established database backup/recovery strategy for different databases. Recovery procedures are applied for complete and incomplete recoveries depending on the type of failure. Management of table space growth, monitoring data files additions, extent growth. Constantly monitor the performance of the Databases and viewing Alert log files & Trace files.