SUMMARY: 7+ years of experience in Development, Build and Release and DevOps Engineering in Automating, Building, Deploying, and Releasing of code from one environment to other environment. Created SCM Process, Policies, Procedures and Release Notes to follow Development and allow SQA teams to Release or deploy highest quality product for the enterprise. Worked on SDLC Methodologies like Agile, Scrum, Waterfall and other processes. Extensive experience with Continuous Integration Tools like Jenkins, Cruise Control Hudson, Bamboo. Extensively experienced in using Build and Automation tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle and working knowledge other build tools like MS Build. Good knowledge in IIS and hands on experience with WebSphere, JBoss and WebLogic deployments. Handled environments DEV, SIT, QA, UAT and PROD for various releases and designed instance strategies. Experience in several AWS services EC2, VPC, S3, CloudWatch, ELB, RDS, Route 53, SQS Auto scaling configurations, etc. Used scripting languages like Python, PowerShell, Ruby, Perl, Bash and configuration management tools Chef,Puppet, Ansible, Atlassian, CF Engine and Web Service like AWS. Installed and Configured - NFS, NIS, DNS, Mail Server, Apache Web Server on Linux and Solaris. Experience in setting up Baselines, Branching, Merging and Automation Processes using Shell/bash and Batch Scripts. Good knowledge on ITIL Process and have worked on coordinating releases across the projects. Experience in building and deploying Java & SOA applications and troubleshooting the build and deploy failures. Experience in creating users, groups and roles Apache HTTP Server Version 2.0 Experience with administrative tasks with CI tools like maintaining configurations and backups and maintain high availability. Hands on experience with QTP, HP Load Runner and Selenium Testing Tools. Experience using Nagios and Graphite monitoring system. Worked with Make, Ant and Maven Build tools in Java and CPP Environment. Good understanding of firewall architectures, networking, and cloud security concepts. Experience in Load balancing, DNS, SSL and firewalls. Expertise in Querying RDBMS such as Oracle, PL/SQL and MY SQL by using SQL for Data integrity. Worked with different Bug Tracking Tools like Remedy, Jira, Servicenow and Clear Quest. Ability in development and execution of XML, Shell Scripts and Perl Scripts. Coordinated with the Offshore and Onshore teams for Production Releases. Migrating existing applications from legacy platforms to AWS Cloud. Ability to work successfully as part of small to medium sized team or independently. Strong ability to troubleshoot any issues generated while building, deploying and in production support Familiar with IaaS, PaaS, SaaS architecture design and implementations. Excellent communication, interpersonal, analytical and quick problem solving skills. Extensive experience in working with Oracle Weblogic, Apache Tomcat application servers. Exceptional ability to quickly master new concepts and a proactive team player. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Programming Languages: C, C++, C#, JAVA, PHP, ASP.NET. Databases: SQL SERVER, PL/SQL, Oracle, MySQL, DB2, MongoDB Web Technologies: HTML, XML, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, XSD, XSL, XPATH. Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Solaris, CentOS, Red Hat 4.x, Windows Scripting Languages: SHELL, PERL, BASH, POWERSHELL, PYTHON, GO, RUBY. Version Control Tools: TFS,CVS, SVN, GIT, GITHUB, Perforce. Application/Web Server: Oracle Weblogic Server 11g, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss, IIS. Build & Release Engineering / DevOps: Jenkins, Nagios, Nexus, Rally, Chef, Ansible, Ant, Maven, ELK Stack(ElasticSearch, Logstash, Kibana ), Gradle, UrbanCode, TerraForm, HUDSON, MS Build, Docker, and BAMBOO. Cloud Computing: Azure, OpenShift, AWS (EC2, VPC, SNS, RDS, IAM, S3, Route53, ElasticBeanstalk, CloudWatch, CloudTrail,CloudFront, CodeCommit, DynamoDB, Redshift, Lambda, OpsWorks and CloudFormation ) PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, San Mateo-CA DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Responsible to build and release processes, analyze existing applications and automate the deployments to minimize repetitive manual tasks. Create and maintain fully automated CI/CD pipelines for GoLang application deployments using Jenkins Declarative Pipelines and Shell Scripts for Microservice architecture. Design DevOps workflow for multiple applications by orchestrating build, test, release and deploy phases through various CI/CD pipelines using Git, Jenkins, Docker, Ansible, OpenShift & other tools. Integrated and trained users on SonarQube with Bitbucket to enforce code quality and automate gated check-ins which reduced code review time by 30% and code quality by 40%. Effectively deliver environments to development and QA teams by improving developer workflow, increasing scalability, and optimizing speed. On call support monitoring various services using Prometheus, Kiabana, Splunk, SysDig. Environment: Git, BitBucket, TFS, Jenkins, .NET, Jfrog Artifactory, Powershell Scripts, SQL Server, Windows Server 2012 R2, MSBuild, Dotnet Core 2.0, Selenium, Jira, SonarQube, GoLang, Kubernetes, Openshift Confidential, Leesummit MO DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Worked as a Lead DevOps Engineer for an Onshore - Offshore team model. Worked on migration from TFS to GIT using GIT-TFS and GIT-TF tool. Did POC on database migrations using open source tools like MyBatis and Flyway and implemented Flyway according to the requirement. Written PowerShell scripts and JSON config files for continuous deployment using Jenkins Was able to successfully integrate Jenkins with Artifactory with the pipeline and deploy the artifacts. Instilled version control for database, treating Database as a code using best practices like using BitBucket for storing Database scripts and versioning them using Flyway. Automated deployment and Rollback for failed migrations using the Flyway tool which has reduced time to deploy, improve quality, faster time to market and reduced error. Gathered requirements from the client and gave inputs to the team to successfully manage the project and was able to deliver the deliverables on time. Worked on setting up CI/CD pipeline using MSBuild, Jenkins, Artifactory and Powershell scripts to deploy to Dev, QA, UAT and PerfTest. Executed the set up of CI/CD pipeline using MSBuild, Jenkins, Artifactory and Powershell scripts to deploy to all the environments - Dev, QA, UAT and PerfTest. Automated deployments and rollbacks for failed database migrations using Flyway tool which has reduced time to deploy, improved quality, increase speed to market and reduced error. Improved the deployment time by 70% applying PowerShell scripts in the Jenkins pipeline. Environment: Git, BitBucket, TFS, Jenkins, .NET, Jfrog Artifactory, Powershell Scripts, SQL Server, Windows Server 2012 R2, MSBuild, Dotnet Core 2.0, Selenium, Jira, SonarQube, Openshift Confidential  DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Developed and implemented Software Release Management strategies for various applications according to the agile process. Developed build and deployment scripts using Ant,Maven and Docker as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. Developed automation framework for Application Deployments to the cloud environments. Automated the hardware profiling process in preparation for an organizational data center migration using Ansible. With Ansible, created roles, and updated playbooks to provision servers. Rolled out Ansible automation and wrote playbooks and plays to update configurations of Nagios. Manage the configurations of multiple servers with Ansible and playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. Worked on Ansible and Nagios for setting up monitoring services for in house applications and services. Built a new CI pipeline. Testing and deployment automation with Docker, Jenkins, and Ansible. Wrote Ansible Playbooks with Python SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks. Performed Branching, Tagging, Release Activities on Version Control Tools: SVN, GIT, GIT HUB. Developed Perl and shell scripts for automation of the build and release process, developed CustomScripts to monitor repositories, Server storage. Deployed Java applications into web application servers like JBoss. Performed and deployed Builds for various environments like QA, Integration, UAT and Productions Environments. Used tracking tool JIRA and also triaged the issues and maintained bugs using JIRA tool. Troubleshoot and resolved Build failures due to infrastructure issues reduced by 95% stabilizing the build process. Setup and executed process to code review system effectively. Responsible for defining Branching & Merging strategy, check-in policies, improving code quality, automated Gated Check-ins, defining backup and archival plans. Troubleshoot Build and Deployment issues, with little downtime. Organized and Coordinated Product Releases, work closely with Product Development, QA,Support across global locations to ensure successful releases. Programmatically Creating Jenkins job using REST API and Creating jobs using CLI, Integrating several tools with plugins. Developed procedures to unify, streamline and automate application development and deployment procedures with Linux container technology using Docker. Environment: Java, Linux, Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Hudson, Ansible, Chef, Python, PowerShell, Perl, AWS, Apache, Django, JBoss, Apache JMETER, MetaCase, DynamoDB, GIT, Kubernetes, GITHub, SVN, Docker, Jira, Oracle. Confidential  Linux System Administrator Responsibilities: Participated in the release cycle of the product which involves environments like Development, QA, UAT and Production. Used Perforce for the purpose of Software Configuration management and maintaining the versions of the Symantec's Website Code. Automated Build Artifacts using Jenkins and Cruise Control. Carried Deployments and Builds on various environments. Wrote Ant and Maven scripts to automate the build process. Created the Deployment notes along with the Local SCM team and released the deployment instruction to application support. Manage source code, software builds, software versioning, and defect tracking on all software maintenance tasks and projects. Involved in Administrator Activities. Performed Builds for various Environments like QA, Integration, UAT and Production Environment. Environment: Java, J2EE, Ant, Maven, Jenkins, TFS, Perforce, WebLogic, Shell, Perl, Oracle 8.x, Windows, Servlets, PLSQL. 