SUMMARY Around 6+ years of IT experiencein all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) - Project Analysis, Requirements, Design, Development, Testing, and Deployment and Documentation. Extensive experience in .NET FrameworkWeb based application development using Microsoft.NET technologies. Solid understanding of Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), UML and RDBMS concepts. Hands on experience in design using Object Oriented Programming (OOP) Principles and Design patterns like Abstract factory, Singleton, Object pool a standard solution to common problems in software design. Experienced in working with Iterative Agile Programming Methodologies, Waterfall methodologies, Scrum and Test-driven development (TDD). Successfully implemented various multi-tiered .NET applications using C#, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, JQuery, Ajax, Json.NET, ASP.NET MVC, ADO.NET, ASP.NET, IIS, SQL Server /2012/2014, DB2 7.0, ADO.NET Entity Framework 6.0, Oracle, SSIS, SSRS and SSAS. Extensive Knowledge on .NET Design Patterns including Dependency Injection (DI),Inversion of Control (IOC), MVVM (Model-View-View-Model)andMVC (Model-View-Control). Experience in design and development of Silverlight and WPF applications using MVVM pattern, Expression Blend, XML, XAML, Telerik RAD controls, Win Forms, ASP.Net applications using ASP.NET MVC 4/5 Entity framework. Experience in working with Kendo UI MVC for Developing Mobile Applications Experience in working with Web Services, WCF Services, ASMX web services, WCF RIA services and ADO.NET, Entity Framework, Experience in Design and Development of GUI (Graphical User Interface) using C# Win Forms and Windows Azure (Compute, Tables, Blobs, & Queues). Developed a Single page application (SPA), mobile-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing Angular 2.0, JavaScript API. Experience in developing applications using Web Services, WCF, REST, WPF, WWF, SOAP, NHibernate and GIT. Experience in developing applications using Angular-Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc. Hands on experience in using Web Server - IIS, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual SourceSafe (VSS), Data Transformation Services (DTS), System center configure management (SCCM). Proficient in writing Unit Test Cases for Business logic using TDD, QUnit test framework and MS Unit test framework, Microsoft Fakes Framework. Expertise in understanding user requirements and translating business requirements into technical solutions with excellent problem solving and troubleshooting capabilities. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: C++, C# 5.0/4.0/3.0/2.0 , VB.NET, ASP.NET, T-SQLOperating System: DOS, Windows NT/98/XP/2000/2003/Vista/2008, UNIX Web Technologies: .NET Framework 4.6/4.5/ 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0 /1. x, ASP.NET, MVC3.0/4.0/5.0, Web API, Silverlight 5.0/4.0/3.0, ASP.Net Ajax 3.0/2.0, JavaScript, Typescript, JQuery, Angular 2.0 Xml Technologies: XAML, XML, XDOCUMENT, XSLT, XPATH, XSL UI Technologies: Win Forms, WPF, WCF, ASP.NET Web Forms IDE Tools: VS 2015/2013/2012/2010 , SQL Server Management Studio ETL Tools: SQL Server Integration services (SSIS 2012), Data Transformation Services (DTS) Databases: MS SQL SERVER 2012/2010/2008/2005 , /SQL MS Access 2010/2007/2003 , Oracle 10g/9i/8i ORM: Entity Framework, N Hibernate Modeling Tools: UML, MS Visio 2010/2007 Reporting Tools: Telerik tool, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Reports Servers: Windows Server 2008/NT, Microsoft IIS (7.5, 7.0/6.0/5.0/4.0 ) Middleware: WCF, ADO.NET 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0 , MSMQ, Web Services, Enterprise Library 4.1/3.1 Version Control Tools: Visual SourceSafe2005, Subversion, Test Driven Development (TDD), Team Foundation Server 2010/2008, SharePoint 07/10/13, GIT PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Senior .Net Developer  Confidential, Denver, CO Responsibilities: Involved in initial phases of design, analysis and elicitation of requirements Followed Test Driven Development to develop the application Developed agile methodologies to enable efficient and TEMPeffective high-quality software development. Developed the existing web application by utilizing ASP.NET MVC5.0 which provides performance data visualization to users. Designed and developed Web Forms using ASP.NET Controls, CSS and HTML to facilitate the users in an organization. Involved in UI Designing, Development and Testing of Web Forms using ASP.NET, Vb.NET, XML/XSD ADO.NET and .NET Framework. Designed Template Driven Angular Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls using Typescript. Analyzed and designed new Web application using MVC5.0 and Repository pattern, from design to completion. Created a custom, single-page, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application using Angular2 Experience with the features ofAngular2such as directives, modules and routing. Highly usedAngular 2router to build single page application for navigates through the different status and multiple modals. Created a Grid View to retrieve the data from DB using MVC architecture Used Kendo UI, Bootstrap, and jQuery libraries for more productive web design. Worked with Entity-Framework for Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) using Auto Mapper. Developed Tests for Unit testing the developed components using N Unit Testing Framework. Developed specifications and product documentation to plan and create automate test cases Used new C# features such as Generics, Iterators, Anonymous methods, Partial classes, Anonymous Types, Lambda Expressions and Extension methods. Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Views in SQL Server 2012 for accessing the database. Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4.6, MVC5.0, WCF, Node.JS, Web Forms, SQL Server 2012, IIS, UML, HTML5, XML, Ajax, CSS, Visual Studio 2017, LINQ, SSRS, SSIS, and VSTS. Senior .Net Developer  Confidential Responsibilities: Involved in initial phases of design, analysis and elicitation of requirements Followed Test Driven Development to develop the application Developed Agile methodologies to enable efficient and TEMPeffective high-quality software development. Used Entity Framework Code First approach for the Data Access Layer for the ASP.NET MVC 5.0 application. Developed a new web application from the scratch by utilizing ASP.NET MVC which provides performance data visualization to users. Designed WPF Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls using XAML language for interactive UI Analyzed and designed new WPF application using MVVM and Repository pattern, from design to completion. Used WCF for developing and deploying services. Created a custom, single-page, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application using Angular JS Involved in SOAP and Restful web services using SOAP UI, axis client. Developed custom controls using third party controls like Telerik. Created a Grid View to retrieve the data from DB using MVC architecture and Kendo UI. Used Kendo UI, Bootstrap, and jQuery libraries for more productive web design. Worked with Entity-Framework for Object-Relational Mapping (ORM). Developed Tests for Unit testing the developed components using N Unit Testing Framework. Developed specifications and product documentation to plan and create automate test cases Used new C# features such as Generics, Iterators, Anonymous methods, Partial classes, Anonymous Types, Lambda Expressions and Extension methods. Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Views in SQL Server 2012 for accessing the database. Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4.6, VB6, WCF, SQL Server 2012, IIS, UML, HTML5, XML, Ajax, CSS, Visual Studio 2012, LINQ, Web API, Kendo UI, MS Office, MS Visio, SSRS, SSIS, MS Unit, Sharepoint and VSTS. Senior .Net Developer  Confidential - Loveland, Colorado Responsibilities: Involved in initial phases of design, analysis and elicitation of requirements Followed Test Driven Development to develop the application Developed Agile Software Development methodologies to enable efficient and TEMPeffective high-quality software development. Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using AngularJS framework and JavaScript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3 standards, with front end UI team. Worked on enhancements of the Custom Applications built on ASP.Net Framework. Worked on the User Controls, Debugging and performed Unit Testing of the Applications built on ASP.Net Developed visual components throughWPFusingXAMLandExpression Blend. Creating and modifying the existing Java Script code in the UI of the Applications based on requirements. Retrieving data from the database by writing SQL Queries. Developed Complex database objects likeStored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers using SQL DevelopedSQL triggersandMaster tablesfor automatic creation of primary keys. Created and modified the existing HTML and Java scripts for enhancements. Analysis, design and complete ownership of various modules. Developed Automation Framework for automating the OEM End to End scenarios. Performed both manual and automated testing. Created database objects such as tables, views, stored procedures etc. Created functions to provide custom functionality as per the requirements Used TFS and Git as source repository and project document sharing. Published Web services using C# to interact with other applications and exposed them using REST and HTTP. Experience in using Third party tools such as Fiddler, Postman to track the traces and responses from the Service. Tested the changes and new functions added on GUI with co-ordination of testing team. Used JSON to transmit data between Server and Web Application, an alternative to XML Serialization Environment: Visual Studio 2012, ADO.NET, ASP.NET, SQL Server 2014, ASP.NET 4.6, CSS5, JavaScript, C#, IIS, Web Services, Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), TFS, SSRS Senior .Net Developer  Confidential - Minneapolis, MN Responsibilities: Involved in initial phases of design, analysis and elicitation of requirements Followed Test Driven Development to develop the application Developed Agile Software Development methodologies to enable efficient and TEMPeffective high-quality software development. Used Entity Framework Code First approach for the Data Access Layer for the ASP.NET MVC 4.0 application using HTML5. Developed a new web application utilizing ASP.NET MVC which provides performance data visualization to users. Designed WPF Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls using XAML language for interactive UI Analyzed theNode.JSserver structure in legacy project, tan mimicked theREST serviceby using JavaJAX-WSAPI, and did the corresponding configurations. Analyzed and designed new WPF application using MVVM and Repository pattern, from design to completion. Used WCF for developing and deploying services. Created a custom, single-page, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application using AngularJS. Involved in SOAP and Restful web services using SOAP UI, axis client. Developed custom controls using third party controls like Telerik. Experience on Entity-Framework for Object-Relational Mapping (ORM). Developed Tests for Unit testing the developed components using N Unit Testing Framework. Involved in Automation Environment setup using Eclipse, Java, Selenium WebDriver jars and TestNG. Experience in working on Application Built on VB.Net and worked on the enhancements of the application by Modifying the Existing VB.Net Code as per the business requirements Developed specifications and product documentation to plan and create automate test cases Used new C# features such as Generics, Iterators, Anonymous methods, Partial classes, Anonymous Types, Lambda Expressions and Extension methods. Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Views in SQL Server 2012 for accessing the database. Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4.6, VB6, WCF, SQL Server 2012, IIS, UML, HTML5, VisualStudio2012, LINQ, WebAPI, Node.JS, Angular 2.0 .Net Developer  Confidential Responsibilities: Interfacing with business for analyzing business processes and creating business/functional requirements documents for the same. Creating design prototypes, site navigation, and layout of content for the application Coding modules in C# to develop pages (Web Forms) for the application. Used master pages, web server controls, web user controls, validation controls, AJAX and JavaScript/JQuery. Involved in Presentation layer, Business Layer and Data Access Layer. Involved in code as well as database refactoring. Developed and modifiedtriggers, packages, functionsandstored proceduresfor data conversions and PL/SQL procedures to create database objects dynamically based on user inputs. Responsible for deployment of web application as a Release Manager in various environments Involved in Database design and creating Physical database, Stored Procedures, Functions, Views and Indexes for the application. Creating test strategies, test plans and test cases. Maintaining and tracking defects in Gemini bug tracker. Using Subversion for storage of files of application and version control. Involved in the optimization of .NET applications and improving system and database performance. Environment: Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2008, C#, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery, SSIS, ADO.Net, SQL 