SUMMARY Having 8 years of IT Experience as a DevOps Engineer and as a Build & Release Engineer in areas of development, System Administration, Software Configuration Management (SCM), Change/Incident Management and production support. Experienced in designing and implementing the DevOps strategy in the mixed environment of Linux servers on multiple distributions such as RHEL and CENTOS along with Amazon webservices and windows servers 2008 R2, 2016 both on premise and Azure cloud. Worked on build and release management methodologies and software procedures in all aspects of SDLC. Experienced in working with source control tools like Subversion Git, GitHub, TFS and VSTS Extensively worked on Jenkins and VSTS for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Experienced in using the build tools such as MAVEN, ANT, Gradle for building the deployable artifacts (war & ear) from source code. Experienced in setting up and maintain the CI/CD Pipeline for multiple Java/.Net environments using various tools like Jenkins, Artifactory, GitHub, VSTS/Azure DevOps. Hands on experience in working with configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible Good Knowledge on build and deployment, build scripts and automated solutions (using scripting languages such as Shell, Python, Power shell). Strong experience in setting up the enterprise infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2 instance, ELB, EBS, S3 Bucket, Security Groups, Auto Scaling, AMI, RDS, IAM Cloud formation & VPC services. Provisioning Web Servers in AWS using different services EC2, VPC, ELB, Auto Scaling, Route53 using Cloud formation templates & AMI’s using Infrastructure as a Service (IAAS). Experience with AWS Glacier, Lambda, API Gateway, (Aurora, Postgres or MySQL) and/or Cloud Formation is a big plus. Worked on the installation and configuration of the monitoring tools like New Relic, Nagios and Zabbix. Expert in Installation and Configurations of Apache Tomcat, Jboss, Web Logic and Various J2EE Servers. Hands on in creating and managing multiple instances of Apache Tomcat and deployed several test applications in those instances for QA environment. Experienced in installing and Configuring Apache, Nginx and IIS Webservers Experienced in writing cookbooks and recipes for various server configurations working with Chef for infrastructure automation. Written Terraformtemplates, Chef Cookbooks, recipes and pushed them onto Chef server for configuring EC2 Instances. Participation in on - call rotation supporting 24x7 critical production applications. Extensive experience in Atlassian, ticketing and tracking tools like JIRA and VSTS for Production hotfixes and bugfixes. Excellent problem resolving interpersonal & communication skills with ability to work under pressure in a highly visible role in a team and individually. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: C, Java, HTML, Bash, YAML, PowerShell, Basic Python scripting SCM Tools: SVN, Git, GitHub, Perforce, TFS. Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, IIS, Oracle Application Server JBOSS, Web Logic Operating Systems: RHEL 6/7, Windows 2008R2/2016, LINUX, UNIX Web Technologies: JSP, Java Script, HTML, XML, HTTP, SOAP, REST, WSDL, XSL Monitoring Tools: Nagios, New Relic, Azure Log Analytics Databases: Oracle, MY SQL, MongoDB. Build & Release Tools: Ansible, Chef, Jenkins, MSBuild, UDeploy, Bamboo, Ant, Maven, VMWare. Orchestration: Docker, Kubernetes PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Chicago, IL DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing a complete automation solution. Created automated build and deployment process for application and leading up to building a Continuous Integration (CI) system for all our products using Jenkins. Implemented a Continuous Delivery (CD) framework using Jenkins, Maven, Kubernetes, Ansible, Artifactory and Nexus in Linux Environment. Implemented a CI/CD pipeline with Docker, Artifactory, Jira, Jenkins, GitHub, and AWS AMIs, whenever code check in happen in the GitHub, it will kick off the Jenkins server to start a new build. Virtualized the servers using Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs, also configuration automation using Docker containers. Experience with Docker Kubernetes and micro services in general and worked on creating custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images. Used Kubernetes during debugging. Leading up to production when multiple application build must be tested for stability. Experience in creating Docker Containers leveraging existing Linux Containers and AMI's in addition to creating Docker Containers from scratch Worked on installation of Docker using Docker toolbox. Server setup and Nginx including F5 load balancing. Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle. Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images. Developing Docker images to support Development and Testing Teams and their pipeline To achieve Continuous Delivery goal on high scalable environment, used Docker coupled with load-balancing tool Nginx. Experienced in Blue-Green Deployment Models within AWS Cloud Environment. Created build Pipeline using Jenkins for continuous integration and automating the job configuration and Jenkins management using Groovy Scripts. Hands on experience in automating different tasks using Windows Power shell. Created and maintained fully automated Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipelines using Jenkins, VSTS/Azure DevOps to decrease end-to-end deployment times, reduce downtime, and increase reliability. Experienced in migration of entire project code base from TFS 2015 TFVC to VSTS Git repositories and implementing Git workflows, Branching, Tagging and Release strategies. Worked on upgrading the .Net Framework 4.7.2/Core 2.0.8 in Dev/Test/stage/PROD Environments. Experienced in working with Azure DevOps and created various Build/Release definitions to set up the complete CICD process. Experienced in working with various services in Azure like Virtual Machines, VNETS, Security Center, App Services and Azure Functions. Written several Ansible playbooks for the automation that was defined through tasks using YAML format and run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers. Implemented Infrastructure automation through the Ansible for auto provisioning the code deployments, software installation and configurations. Good Knowledge on various life cycle managements like Application/Information Life cycle managements (ALM/ILM) Used JIRA and VSTS ticketing system to prioritize and fix the issues in the .Net and Java builds. Environment: Jenkins, VMware, Maven, Docker, Power Shell, JBOSS, IIS, JIRA, PowerShell, Python, YAML, Groovy, Git, VSTS, Splunk, ELK stack, AWS, Azure, Terraform, Ansible, Windows, CentOS. Confidential - Sunnyvale, CA Build and Release/ DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Coordinate with the Development, Database Administration, QA, and IT Operations teams to ensure there are no resource conflicts. Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's, whenever a new GitHub branch gets started, Jenkins, our Continuous Integration server, automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it. Automated Weekly releases with Maven scripting for Compiling Java Code, Debugging and Placing Builds into Maven Repository. Defined dependencies and plug-ins in Maven pom.xml for various activities and integrated Maven with GIT to manage and deploy project related tags. Built additional Docker Slave nodes for Jenkins using custom built Docker images and instances. Created Docker images using a Docker file, worked on Docker container snapshots, removing images and managing Docker volumes. Promoting the artifacts into the Artifacts Repository Managers like JFROG Artifactory and Nexus. Used Jenkins for creating declarative pipelines with end to end automation of Builds and Deployments. Worked with Blue-Green Deployment methodologies for high availability and no downtime. Created Upstream and Downstream projects to develop the delivery and build pipelines. Experienced in Installing, Configuring and Monitoring using New Relic and NAGIOS. Migrated customer environments to AWS ensuring complete support for existing Chef Implementation. Experienced in setting up the chef infrastructure, chef-repo and boot strapping the chef nodes. Implemented CI process for Chef Cookbooks development workflow with help of Test Kitchen, Food critic, Robocop and Chef Spec. Installing, configuring and administering the Jenkins CI tool using chef on AWS Ec2 instances. Creating alarms in Cloud Watch service for monitoring the servers’ performance, CPU Utilization, disk usage etc. Created AWS Launch configurations based on customized AMI and use this launch configuration to configure auto scaling groups and Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, DynamoDB, Route53, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto Scaling groups. Created alarms and trigger points in Cloud Watch based on thresholds and monitored logs via metric filters. Integrated Maven with GIT to manage and deploy project related tags and managed Nexus Maven repositories to download the artifacts. Implemented a 'server less' architecture using API Gateway, Lambda, and Dynamo DB and deployed AWS Lambda code from Amazon S3 buckets. Created a Lambda Deployment function and configured it to receive events from S3 bucket. Worked with the Terraform for automating the VPCs, ELBs, Security groups, SQS Queues, S3 buckets and continuing to replace the rest of our Infrastructure. Created Terraform modules to create instances in AWS and automated the process of creation of resources in AWS using Terraform. Automated the way of Creating/Destroying the big data clusters and written Terraform scripts to spin up the instances, VPCs, Security groups in AWS. Involved in writing the chef cookbooks and recipes to automate the deployment process and to integrate the chef cookbooks into Jenkins jobs for continuous delivery framework. Ability to create scripts using Azure Power shell for the automation and build process. Excellent problem solving, analytical skills and technical troubleshooting skills. Expert in using Nexus & JFROG Artifactory Repository Managers for Maven and Ant builds. Experienced in 24x7 on-call production support and troubleshooting problems related to deployments. Environment: RHEL 6/7, Chef, Docker, Maven 3, Jenkins, Confluence, Git, JFROG, Bash, PowerShell, Gradle, JIRA, Web Logic, GitHub, Python, Cucumber, AWS, Microsoft Azure, Splunk, Nagios. Confidential Linux/Unix Administrator Responsibilities: Installation, configuration and upgrade ofRHEL and CentOS operating systems. Red Hat Linux server administrator, including security patching, kernel tuning, RAID disk array management, software packaging and installation using RPMs. Worked with variety of File system management software’s such as Veritas Volume Manager, LVM, ZFS, SVM. Responsible for automating the process of setting up the Linux clients for AD authentication. Monitor the performance and availability of key middleware components in production and test environments. Configured kick start servers to install Red Hat Linux and VMware ESX on multiple machines. Implemented VMware design performing migration tasks such as physical machines to Virtual machines (P2V), Virtual to Virtual (V2V) using VMware converter. Have been the on-call person for the application, worked with the appropriate team members to bring the issue and get a resolution. Worked on customer tickets which are related to our application and help application team for the configuration changes and the file drops on the different servers. Troubleshooting and configuration of Local and Network based printers. User, Group Administrationand Advanced File Permissions. Maintain security for the networked environment while allowing users to access all data and software remotely. Involved in supportingApache, Tomcatand generated SSL keys for renewing SSL certs on web servers. Involved in developing custom scripts usingPython, Perl & Shell(bash, ksh) to automate jobs. Resolving production issues/tickets by using ticketing tool. Environment: RHEL, BMC Tools, NAGIOS, Veritas NetBackup, Korn Shell, Bash Scripting, Veritas Volume Manager, web servers, LDAP directory, Active Directory, BEA Web logic servers, SAN Switches, Apache, Tomcat WebSphere, WebLogic. 