SUMMARY 8+ years of experience as a DevOps / Build and Release Engineering in automating, building, deploying, and releasing of code from one environment to another environment. Exposed to all aspects of software development life cycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Planning, Developing, Testing, and Implementing and Post - production analysis of teh projects. Experience wif Continuous Integration andDeployment AWS, MicrosoftAzure, VMWare (vCloud Suite). Managing web applications and other services to teh cloud, involved wif networking, firewalls, hosting, Windows, and Azure. Experience in troubleshooting,Configuring and Deploying Enterprise Applications in application servers such as Tomcat. Strong experience on DevOps essential tools like Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Docker,Kubernetes, Subversion (SVN), GIT, Hudson, Jenkins, Ant, Maven and Managed Services like EC2, S3, Route53, ELB, EBS. Experience in working on source control tools like Tortoise SVN. Fulfilling teh role of a Release Engineer in respects to our Puppet code. Responsible for QA, code merges. Extensive experience using MAVEN and ANT as build tools for teh building of deployable artifacts (jar, war & ear) from source code. Extensively worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Experience in Automating, Configuring and Deploying Instances on Azure environments and in Data centers. Successfully designed and delivered secure cloud solutions for last two which me has worked. Strong noledge of source controller concepts like Branches, Merges and Tags. In-depth understanding of teh principals and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM). Worked wif Engineers, QA, business and other teams ensure automated test efforts are tightly integrated wif teh build system and in fixing teh error while doing teh deployment and building. Exposed to all aspects of software development life cycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Planning, Developing, Testing, and Implementing and Post-production analysis of teh projects. Expert in deploying teh code through web application servers like WebSphere/ Apache Tomcat/JBOSS. Cloud & SaaS Platforms likeAmazon and Google Web Services, Workday, Concur, ServiceNow. Experience in Package management using RPM, YUM and UP2DATE in Red Hat Linux. Ability in development and execution of XML, Shell Scripts and Perl Scripts. Efficient in working closely wif teams to ensure high quality and timely delivery of builds and releases. Experience in developing new security template in VMware for Red Hat Linux 6.5 to meet existing security standard. Experiences wif evaluating Docker and Containers. Created Containers in Docker. Having good Experience in Chef, Puppet, Ansible for Deployment on Multiple platforms. Excellent experience in documenting and automating teh build and release process. Ability in managing all aspects of teh software configuration management process, including code compilation, packaging/deployment/ release methodology, and application configurations. Expertise in Querying RDBMS such as Oracle, MYSQL and SQL Server by using SQL for data integrity. Experience in using Bug tracking tools like JIRA, Remedy, HP Quality Center and IBM ClearQuest, Mingle. Expertise in troubleshooting teh problems generated while building, deploying and also in production support. Excellent communicative, interpersonal, intuitive, analysis and leadership skills wif ability to work efficiently in both independent and team work environments. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: Windows, Mac OS X, UNIX, LINUX (RHEL), REDHAT, Linux Mint, Fedora, Ubuntu, Cloudera. Versioning Tools: CVS, Tortoise SVN,GIT,Perforce, Gitra, RedMine, JUnit. Cloud Computing: AWS (EC2, ELB, S3) CI/CM Tools: Jenkins, Chef, Puppet, Ansible Build Tools: Cruise Control, ANT, MAVEN and TeamCity, Sonar. Languages/Scripting: C, C++, Perl scripting,Power Shell scripting, SQL, Java/J2EE, Ruby, Python, Bash. Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, Remedy, HP Quality Center, IBM Clear Quest, Mingle. Web Technologies: Servlets, JDBC, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, XML. Web servers: Web logic, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS. RDBMS: Oracle, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, DB2. Others: MS Outlook, Azure, Agile, SCRUM, Load Balancing. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, MD AWS/Devops Engineer Responsibilities: Configured Jenkins for continuous integration and performed continuous deployments. Build server deployment on an Amazon Cloud (EC2) servers wif teh help of developing tools like a chef. Implemented and maintained Chef Configuration management spanning several environments in VMware and teh AWS cloud. Involved in supporting cloud instances running Linux and Windows on AWS, experience wif Elastic IP, Security Groups and Virtual Private Cloud in AWS. Extensive experience on configuring Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing IAM and Security Groups in Public and Private Subnets in VPC and other services in teh AWS. Building instances wif cloud formation templates to create EC2 components, deployed teh applications through chef. Created, Configured teh complex environment wif resources like VPC, Subnets, Web server(Apache), Middleware server( Web logic) . Kubernetes is being used to orchestrate teh deployment, scaling and management of Docker Containers. Installed Sysdig, Heapster, Kubedns Autoscaler wif teh cluster creation. Build teh kubernetes cluster larger TEMPthan 30 nodes. Scheduled, deployed and managed container replicas onto a node cluster usingKubernetes. Managed local deployments inKubernetes, creating local cluster and deploying application containers. Automation Engineer for Developing Build and deploy tool like Jenkins. Extensively worked on Jenkins CI/CD pipeline jobs for end-to-end automation to build, test and deliver artifacts and Troubleshoot teh build issue during teh Jenkins build process. Ran arbitary groovy scripts wif in teh Jenkins master runtime or in teh runtime on agents. Create Sub-processes and execute arbitrary commands on teh Jenkins master and agents using groovy. Deployed teh Java applications into web application servers like Web logic. Automation of various administrative tasks on multiple servers using Chef. Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Tortoise SVN. Extensively worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Configured, maintained, deployed and trouble shoot ofWebLogicon multiple platforms, deployments, trouble shooting and maintenance for production, development, QA and training environments. Used Shell Scripting (Bash and Ksh), Ruby based scripts for merging, branching and automating teh processes across teh environments. Designed and implemented Chef, including teh internal best practices, cookbooks, automated cookbook CI and CD system. Also, Implemented Automated Application Deployment using chef. Implemented Git, GitHUB, Jenkins, Maven, SVN and also ran teh Chef cookbooks/recipes to automate build and manage on tomcat, apache. Developed Perl and shell scripts for automation of teh build and release process, developed Custom Scripts to monitor repositories, Server storage. Built and Deployed Java/J2EE to a WEBapplication server in an Agile continuous integration environment and also automated teh whole process. Environment: Tortoise SVN, Jenkins, Pipeline, Groovy, AWS,Kubernetes, Docker, MAVEN, Web Sphere, Weblogic, Perl Scripts, Shell Scripts, UNIX, Chef, GIT. Confidential, GA Devops Engineer Responsibilities: Release Engineer for a team that involved different development teams and multiple simultaneous software releases. Administered and configured teh TFS wifin multi- platform environments. Setup integration and QA environments, TFS and build environments and a variety of CM specific environments. Developed and implemented Software Release Management strategies for various applications according to teh agile process. Participated in weekly release meetings wif Technology stakeholders identify and mitigate potential risks associated wif teh releases. Automation Engineer for Developing Build and deploy tool like Jenkins. Storing Build & Deploy Logs and Data in Postgres SQL Server. Wrote puppet manifests for deploying, configuring, Install shield and managing collected for metric collection and monitoring. Converting Puppet Work flow into Python. Monitor everyday systems and evaluate availability of all server resources and perform all activities for Linux servers. Maintain and monitor all system frameworks and provide after call support to all systems and maintain optimal Linux noledge. Creating, cloning Linux Virtual Machines, templates using VMware workstation and ESXi environment Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Tortoise SVN. Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes Provided end-user straining for all Tortoise SVN, JIRA users to TEMPeffectively use teh tool. Build scripts using ANT and MAVEN build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. Involved in creating and configuring profiles, clusters, nodes, node agents forWebSphere Application Server and WebLogic Application server. Deployed J2EE applications to Application servers in an Agile continuous integration environment and also automated teh whole process. Created and maintained teh python deployment scripts for Web Sphere web application. Developed Perl and shell scripts for automation of teh build and release process. Involved in editing teh existing ANT/MAVEN files in case of errors, changes in teh project requirements. Participating in 24x7 production on-call support of Linux and provided technical support to users. Experience on .NET and build automation and unit testing scripting and maintaining code repository and create document and manage our branching and merging patterns. Managed Maven project dependencies by creating parent-child relationships between Projects. Deployed Puppet, Puppet Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure. Deployed teh Java applications into web application servers like Web logic. Architected and implemented automated cloud infrastructure using Puppet. Jenkins is used as a continuous integration tool for automation of daily process. Documented teh entire build and release engineering process and provided on call support. Designing and implementing fully automated server build management, monitoring and deployment By Using Technologies like Puppet. Environment: Tortoise SVN, Jenkins, Java/J2EE, ANT, MAVEN, Web Sphere, Weblogic, Perl Scripts, Shell Scripts, XML, UNIX, JIRA, GIT. Confidential, TX Devops Engineer Responsibilities: Developed and supported teh Software Release Management and procedures. Performed all necessary day-to-day Subversion/GIT support for different projects. Responsible for teh design and maintenance of teh Subversion/GIT Repositories, views, and teh access control strategies. Designed and implemented Subversion and GIT metadata, including elements, labels, attributes, triggers and hyperlinks. Full lifecycle development using Python/Django/Postgres to support teh product development. Develop and test reusable and maintainable code using existing application framework. This will include requirement analysis, design, development and production support. Automation and configuration management using CLI and API scripting (Bash/Shell) Implemented & maintained teh branching and build/release strategies utilizing Subversion/GIT. Manage configuration of Web App and Deploy to AWS cloud server through Chef. Experience wif Linux servers in virtualized environments Involved in periodic archiving and storage of teh source code for disaster recovery. Worked closely wif developers to pinpoint and provide early warnings of common build failures. Used ANT and MAVEN as a build tools on Java projects for teh development of build artifacts in teh source code. Developed ANT scripts to build an application and deploy it inTomcatapplication server. Expertise in setting up Database and MQ configurations inTomcatand JBoss. Automated teh build and release management process, including monitoring changes between releases. Executed user administration and maintenance tasks including creating users and groups, reports and queries. Worked as a system administrator for teh build and deployments process in teh enterprise server. Documented project’s software release management procedures wif input decisions. Developed, maintained, and distributed release notes for each scheduled release. Provided periodic feedback of status and scheduling issues to teh management. Kept track of all teh releases and request of teh developers through Infrastructure management tool. Creating, cloning Linux Virtual Machines, templates using VMware workstation and ESXi environment. Used continuous integration tool like Anthill pro to automate teh daily processes. Created views and appropriate meta-data, performed merges, and executed builds on a pool of dedicated build machines. Involved in periodic archiving and storage of teh source code for disaster recovery. Environment: Subversion, GIT, Chef, AWS, Java/J2EE, ANT, MAVEN, Jenkins, JIRA, LINUX, Tomcat, Jboss, Ruby, Perl Scripts, Shell scripts. Confidential, MI Build & Release Engineer Responsibilities: Worked closely wif teh Development Team in teh design phase and developed use case diagrams using Rational Rose. Worked wif teh Architects on SDLC process being teh post development environments. Developed and implemented teh software release management for their release of web applications. Wrote ANT and MAVEN Scripts to automate teh build process. Used Shell/Perl scripts to automate teh deployment process. Developed and implemented teh software release management for their release of web applications. Co-coordinated Instance Refreshes and Environment Re-base lining. Designed a customized Status Reporting tool used currently, based on teh specific requirements usingJ2EE/Struts and Websphere Application Server. Coordinated all teh IT projects successfully by resolving release interdependencies and planning release. Planning, scheduling and documenting releases at code Freeze Periods. Sole person to be responsible for Release/Change control Process. Worked wif many teams of strength more TEMPthan 30 and managed 2 release/build engineers. Designed a customized Status Reporting tool used currently, based on teh specific requirements usingJ2EE/Struts and Websphere Application Server. Performed Functional and Stress Testing for a few applications using Mercury Load runner Environment: Subversion (SVN), GIT, PVCS, Clear Case, Jenkins, Java/J2EE, ANT, MAVEN, LINUX, UNIX, Web Sphere, Perl Scripting. Confidential System Engineer Responsibilities: Experience wif Linux servers in virtualized environments. Executed user administration and maintenance tasks including creating users and groups, reports and queries. Performed reorganization of disk partitions, file systems, hard disk addition, and memory upgrade. Also monitored system activities, log maintenance, and disk space management. Performed regular day-to-day system administrative tasks including User Management, Backup, Network Management, and Software Management including Documentation etc. Extensively worked wif Nagios for performance monitoring. Expertise in file system concepts LVM, SVM. Creating new file systems, increasing and decreasing file systems, mounting file systems, unmounting file systems and troubleshooting Disk space issues. Experience wif setting LINUX and UNIX firewall rules utilizing IPTables. Performed regular day-to-day system administrative tasks including User Management, Backup, Network Management, and Software Management including Documentation etc. Excellent interpersonal skills, proven team player wif an analytical bent to problem solving and delivering under high stress environment. Environment: Linux, Shell Scripts,UNIX. 