SUMMARY Around 8 years of substantial IT experience with expertise in AWS & Azure cloud services, DevOps, Build and release Engineering, Software configuration Management (SCM), Cloud Infrastructure, Automation. Experience in creating the company's DevOps strategy in a mix environment of Linux RHEL, Ubuntu, CentOS servers along with creating and implementing a cloud strategy based on Amazon Web Services. Experience in Infrastructure Development and Operations involving AWS Cloud platform (EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, RDS, SES, ELB, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, SNS, Route 53). Worked on Multiple AWS EC2 instances, set the security groups, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs, Auto scaling to design cost effective, fault tolerant and highly available systems. Used ELK to debug production issues and log the AWS S3 storage dat stores the sites traffic activity. Experienced with AWS VPC systems administration and security; making subnets, set up peering, ACL's and VPN burrows, Cloud Formation, EC2 and VPCs. Worked with Terraform key features such as Infrastructure as code, Execution plans, Resource Graphs, Change Automation DeployedAzureIaaS virtual machines (VMs) and Cloud services (PaaS role instances) into secure VNets and subnets. Good working experience onAzureARM templates, Operations Management Suit, PowerShell scripting And MS Web Deploy for creating Websites. Worked Queues, Blobs and containers to persist data on Azure Implemented AzureAPIM modules for public facing subscription - based autantication. Expertise in automation tools like Git, Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Subversion, Nagios and Docker. Worked with Docker and created multiple containers and images (Tomcat, Ubuntu, Etc.). Configured these containers to communicate with each other. Used Docker for Ship, Run, virtualization, and Deploy the application with securely for fasten the Release/Build Engineering. Worked on many aspects of Kubernetes cluster deployment and cluster health services for developing cloud services to deployment on top of runtime. Experience in providing a layer over the infrastructure with the help of Kubernetes. Good knowledge in maintaining public Git Repositories such as GitHub, Bit Bucket and Stash. Strong background in Branching, Merging, Tagging, and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like Subversion (SVN) and GIT (GitHub, GitLab). Extensive experience using MAVEN, ANT as build tools for writing build.xml and pom.xml and building of deployable artifacts from source code. Hands on experience on build automation tools like ANT and Maven with working knowledge on other build tools like MS Build and CMake. Experience on all areas of Jenkins like Plugin Management, Securing Jenkins, Performance issues, Analytics, Scaling Jenkins, integrating Code Analysis and Test Phases to complete the CD pipelines within Jenkins. Worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Experience in Setting up Chef Workstation, Working with Chef Cookbooks, Chef Recipes, Chef Attributes. Experienced with Ansible playbooks for virtual and physical instance provisioning, configuration management, patching and software deployment. Good understanding of Ansible, for configuring and managing computers, combining multi-node software deployment, ad hoc task execution, and configuration management. Expertise in using various Puppet features such as Resource management like Package, Service, File. User Management, Modules, Class, Definition, Templates, Factor and external commands. Installed/Configured/Managed Puppet Master/Agent. Wrote custom Modules and Manifests, downloaded pre-written modules from puppet-forge. Upgradation or Migration of Puppet Community and Enterprise. Using Puppet Enterprise to Manage Application configurations and utilizing BASH Scripts and Right scale to do initial server provisioning and puppet to deploy and update applications including Apache Tomcat and other proprietary applications. Skilled enough to build deployment build scripts and automated solutions (using scripting languages such as Shell, Perl, and JavaScript etc.) Involved in setting up JIRA as defect tracking system and configured various workflows, customizations and plug-ins for the JIRA bug/issue track. Experience in Monitoring teams to identify and troubleshoot issues on servers using tools like Nagios, Splunk and net-SNMP. Excellent understanding of SDLC methodologies like Agile, Waterfall, RAD, and other processes. Strong skills in managing Red Hat Linux servers, Virtualization, and system security. Strong comprehension of central advancements like DNS, Load Balancing, SSL, TCP/IP, systems administration and security best practices. Very quick in learning new technologies and a good team player working with Project Managers, Architects, Team Leads, Developers, Business Analysts, Testers. Good interaction with developers, managers and team members to coordinated job tasks and strong commitment to work. TECHNICAL SKILLS SCM Tools: Subversion(SVN), GIT, ClearCase, Perforce Build Tools: Ant, Maven, Gradle CI Tools: Jenkins, Hudson, Build forge and Cruise control Configuration Tools: Chef, Puppet, Ansible Containerization: Docker, Kubernetes and Vagrant Monitoring Tools: Splunk, Nagios Tracking Tools: Jira, Remedy, ClearQuest Cloud Platforms: AWS, Azure, OpenStack, Google AWS Services: EC2, ELB, VPC, RDS, IAM, CloudFormation, S3, CloudWatch, Cloud Trial, SNS, SQS, SWF, EBS, EMR, Dynamo DB, Redshift, Lambda AWS RDS: PostgreSQL, Aurora, MySQL Database System: SQL Server 2000/2005, Mongo db. Oracle 9i/10g-PL/SQL Scripting Languages: Python, Ruby, Perl, Shell Scripting, Power Shell Languages:  Confidential, Confidential ++, PHP, Java Web Technologies: Google Web Toolkit, HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, JAVA SCRIPT Servers: WebLogic, WebSphere, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat, TFS, IIS, Nginx Network Services: FTP-Vsftpd, SSH, TELNET, TCP/IP, HTTP, DHCP, SNMP, FTP, SMTP, NFS, WinSCP, SAN/NAS, MULTIPATHING, RAID LEVELS. Platforms: UNIX, Linux, HP-UX, Solaris, Centos 6.5,7, Red Hat, Windows NT/2003/2008, Microsoft windows Vista/XP/2000 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Houston, TX Sr. AWS/DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Maintained and Developed a cloud-based architecture in AWS, including creating machine images like AMI and helped migrating and managing multiple applications from on premise to cloud using AWS services like S3, Glacier, VPC, EC2, RDS, SQS, SNS, SES, VPC, EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, ELB, EBS, SES, Security Group, Auto Scaling, Elastic Cache, CloudFront, CloudWatch, SNS and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates. Used Identity and Access Management (IAM) to assign roles and to create and manage AWS users, groups and use permissions to AWS resources. Configured, supported and maintained all network, firewall, storage, load balancers, operating systems, and software in AWS EC2 and created detailed AWS Security groups which behaved as virtual firewalls dat controlled the traffic allowed reaching one or more AWS EC2 instances. Develop Cloud Formation scripts to automate EC2instances. Design user's credentials and profiles usingAWSIAM. DB tables, EBS volumes; to set alarms for notification or automated actions; and to monitor logs for a better understanding and operation of the system availability regions. Built and maintained Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana stack to centrally collect logs dat are used to monitor applications Hands on experience in monitoring EC2 instances using Nagios. Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Python, Ruby, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, and IIS. Triggered Lambda from DynamoDB where Lambda runs data transformation code and loads results into data warehouse by using Redshift which is an Internet hosting service. Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates. Creating and Managing Virtual Machines in WindowsAzureand setting up communication with the help of Endpoints and VM Migrations from Transitional hosts. Designed, deployed, maintained and lead the implementation of Cloud solutions using MicrosoftAzureand underlying technologies. Provided consistent environment using Kubernetes for deployment scaling and load balancing to the application from dev through production, easing the code development and deployment pipeline by implementing Docker containerization with multiple namespace. Managed Kubernetes charts using Helm, and Created reproducible builds of the Kubernetes applications, managed Kubernetes manifest files and managed releases of Helm packages. Good understanding of Open shift platform in managing Docker containers and Kubernetes Clusters. Created Docker images using a Docker file, worked on Docker container snapshots, removing images and managing docker volumes. Developed procedures to unify streamline and automate applications development and deployment procedures with Linux container technology using Docker swarm. Responsible for design and maintenance of the Subversion/GIT, Stash Repositories, views, and the access control strategies. Build scripts using ANT and MAVEN build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. Used MAVEN as a dependency management tool to manage all the dependencies dat are required. Configured Jenkins daily periodic backups for Jenkins Config and plugins files and Integrated Jenkins Build pipeline plugin for managing multi project jobs efficiently. Responsible for building/deploying consistently repeatable build/deployments to company production and non-production environments using Jenkins. Deployed and configured Chef Server and Chef Solo including bootstrapping of chef client nodes for provisioning. Implemented Chef Software setup and configuration on VM’s from the scratch and deployed the run-list into chef server and bootstrap the chef-clients remotely. Implemented CI process for Chef Cookbook’s development workflow with help of Test Kitchen, Food critic, Robocop and Chef Spec. Implemented cloud infrastructure using Chef and implemented auto scaling and Assign chef roles to EC2 instances. Automated the Applications and MySQL container deployment in Docker using Python and monitoring of these containers using Nagios. Use build tools to aggregate projects using Apache, Ant, Maven, Groovy tools, and Gradle. Experience with NOSQL databases Cassandra and MongoDB. Experience in using SPLUNK for log analyzing and improving the performance of servers. Used JIRA to track issues and Change Management. Scripting in multiple languages on UNIX, LINUX and Windows - Bash, Python. Environment: AWS (EC2, S3, Lambda, Glacier, VPC, EBS, RDS, ELB, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch), ELK, GIT, Maven, Jenkins, Chef, Docker, Kubernetes, Nagios, Python, Shell Scripts, Bash, Ruby Unix/ Linux environment. Confidential, Kettering, OH AWS/DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Responsible for configuring the build and release activities on critical enterprise level and web applications. Responsible for maintaining and deploying builds in UAT and Production environments. Build and configure a virtual data center in the AWS cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse hosting including VPC, Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups, Route Tables, ELB. Efficiently worked for AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems dat handled expected and unexpected load bursts. Worked with Terraform to create AWS components like EC2, IAM, VPC, ELB, Security groups. Automated AWS components like EC2 instances, Security groups, ELB, RDS, Lambda and IAM through AWS cloud Formation templates. Used security groups, network ACLs, Internet Gateways, NAT instances and Route tables to ensure a secure zone for organizations in AWS public cloud. Experience in writing Amazon Lambda functions, Amazon S3 for storage, SNS, Cloud front for accessing and content delivery (CDN) and VPC for network security access as per requirement. Configured and installed monitoring tools Kibana, Logstash and Elastic Search on the servers. Migrating a production infrastructure into an AWS utilizing AWS Cloud formation, Code Deploy, Chef, EBS, and Ops Works. Involved in developing custom images on Cloud using AWS images and on ESX using Templates and involved in building physical servers using Kickstart PXE Boot and Jumpstart. Deployed OpenStack workloads onto AWS. Migrated cloud formation scripts of OpenStack to AWS templates to setup VPC. Ansible installation and maintenance for infrastructure automation. Developed playbooks Ruby Shell scripts for build and deployment and configuration release process. Using Ansible-Playbook (Python base) to automate build/setup LAMP Stack and manage multiple RedHat and Windows cloud servers. Developed Ansible scripts for an automated server provisioning and Docker imagesfor isolation, reducing the time between provisioning and deployment from over 3 hours to less TEMPthan 10 minutes. Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, scale and manage Docker containers with multiple name spaced versions. Having great knowledge in Puppet Master, Puppet Console and Puppet Agents. Created Puppet modules and Classes. Develop and implement an automated Linux infrastructure using Puppet. Served as Point of Contact (POC) to provide KT on configuration management to write CHEF automation scripts to migrate automation from Deploy to CHEF. Developed Chef Cookbooks to automate IIS, MS Build, WebLogic and Tomcat installations. Implemented Chef Cookbooks, Recipes for Deployment on build on internal Data Centre Servers. Also re-used and modified same Chef Recipes to create a Deployment directly into Amazon EC2 instances. Installed Chef Cookbooks and migrated Chef Server to AWS Ops Works using which cloud services were automated. Integration of Automated Build with Deployment Pipeline. Currently installed Chef Server and clients to pick up the Build from Jenkins repository and deploy in target environments. Set up Jenkins master and added the necessary plugins and adding more slaves to support scalability and agility. Configuring Jenkins as a common CI engine to build and promote applications to DEV, QA and STAGING to Linux environments. Virtualized the servers using the Docker for the test environments and dev-environment needs. Experience working on Docker hub, creating Docker images and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations. Designed and implemented Subversion and GIT metadata including elements, labels, attributes, triggers and hyperlinks analyzed and resolved conflicts related to merging of source code for Git. Managed Maven project dependencies by creating parent-child relationships between projects. Used ANT and Maven as a build tools on java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code. Managed and architecture more TEMPthan 3000 virtual servers. Monitored server traffic through Nagios. Administered Linux servers for several functions including managing Apache/Tomcat server, mail server, and MySQL databases in both development and production. Expanded Experience in Network Management like DNS, NIS, NFS, LDAP, TFTP and system troubleshooting skills. Environment: AWS EC2, S3, Glacier, VPC, EBS, RDS, ELB, Auto scaling, CloudFormation, Cloud Front, CloudWatch, GIT, Maven, Jenkins, Chef, Ansible, Docker, Nagios, Python, Shell Scripts, Bash, Ruby Unix/ Linux environment. Confidential, Akron, OH DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Provided CM and Build support for more TEMPthan 5 different applications, built and deployed to the production and lower environment. Defined and Implemented CM and Release Management Processes, Policies and Procedures. Worked on integrating GIT into the continuous Integration (CI) environment along with Jenkins and Subversion. Implemented a GIT mirror for SVN repository, which enables users to use both GIT and SVN. Extensively worked on GIT as a source code management. Creating builds using power shell Scripts, ANT/Maven scripts manually and automated. Troubleshooting deployment and installation issues. Automated the Build Process using Jenkins. Configured and setup Maven profiles. Configured Maven user settings in 'settings.xml' file for users in their home directory. Managed Maven project dependencies by creating parent-child relationships between Projects. Used Maven (POM.xml) and Ant scripts (build.xml) as build frameworks/scripts. Integration of Automated Build with Deployment Pipeline. Currently installed Chef Server and clients to pick up the Build from Jenkins repository and deploy in target environments Writing Chef Recipes and cookbooks and uploading them to Chef Server, managing on-site OS, Applications, Services, Packages using Chef. Implied in testing cookbooks on different platforms using Chef Kitchen. Hands-On knowledge with the Chef DK for storing cookbooks and in documenting the pattern and use of Delivery CLI to automate the adeptness in Chef and Maintaining and accessing the infrastructure through Chef Compliance and Inspect the node to test the infrastructure by specifying the policies to follow. Deployed Puppet, Puppet Dashboard and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure. Deployment of syslog server and client configurations through version control (subversion) managing through Puppet. Experienced using different log monitoring tools like Splunk, ELK and Logstash for to see logs information. Installed and configured monitoring tools Nagios for monitoring the network bandwidth and the hard drives status. Developed Splunk infrastructure and related solutions as per automation toolsets. Integrated JIRA and Subversion using Pre-commit hooks to ensure the process is followed and automated JIRA tasks using JIRA CLI. Performed all Linux disk management and patch management configurations. Performed package administration on Linux using rpm and yum thru RHN Satellite and subscription manager. Environment: GIT, Maven, Jenkins, Chef, Puppet, AWS, Jira, Nagios, Python, Shell Scripting, Linux, Ruby, agile. Confidential, franklin, NJ Build/Release Engineer Responsibilities: Directed the Release Management Calls to synchronize with the Developers, Testers and DBA teams for successful Release. Worked with development/testing, deployment, systems/infrastructure and project teams to ensure continuous operation of build and test systems. Monitored software, hardware, and/or middleware updates and utilizing technologies like Jenkins/Hudson, Ant, MS Build, TFS Team Explorer, and Subversion. Developed installer scripts using Ant, Python and UNIX for various products to be hosted on Application Servers. Setup and configuration of Tomcat, created multiple instances, did deployment of war files. Developed Continuous Integration, Nightly and On-demand build system from scratch with Jenkins, ANT, and Maven. Expertise in using Puppet Dashboard and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure. Automated deployment modules of IIS web applications, bindings and configuration settings using a combination of PowerShell scripts and Puppet. Used both GIT and Bitbucket source control systems to manage code. Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming conventions using GIT source control. Used JIRA to track issues and Change Management. Experience onSplunksearch construction with ability to create well-structured search queries dat minimize performance impact. Created and deployed a tool to automate branch and project creation in subversion using Perl and Chef Scripts. Used Jenkins, Chef, shell scripts to automate the code deployment & automation of continuous integration infrastructure (GIT and Nexus were also used in dis process). Lead the rewrite of a massive Chef Code base to make cookbooks composable and testable, and to facilitate the migration from Ubuntu to Centos. Performed WebLogic Server administration tasks such as installing, configuring, monitoring and performance tuning on Linux Environment. Installed and configured network infrastructure using routing and switching strategies TCP /IP network services. Environment: ANT, Puppet, Chef, Jenkins, Make, JIRA, Perforce, Shell, UNIX, Linux, Subversion, AWS, Apache 2.x, Apache Tomcat 6.x/7.x, Splunk. Confidential Linux Administrator Responsibilities: Administered and Configured RHEL 4/5, Solaris 9 operating systems environment. Managed and added patch using tools like Yum, Repository and RHEL satellite server and Sun Update manager for Solaris server. Managed Multipathing on RedHat and Solaris using EMC power path and native Multipathing software’s. Ensured application availability with RedHat clustering and VERITAS cluster. Created different RAID level configuration and managed SAN storage for application and database server. Configured and installed Apache, JBOSS, Tomcat and WebSphere. Maintained and configured LDOMs server virtualization with Solaris zones and ZFS file system. Configured and maintained DNS, NFS, DHCP and automounter. Worked on Veritas Volume management, Solaris Volume Management on Solaris and Linux Volume Management in Linux. Installed and configured VMware ESX server 3.5, 4.0 and vSphere 4.0 on Dell power edge servers. Created and maintained environmental specific installation and configuration guides for P2V migrations, ESX Server, vCenter Server, vSphere Clients, VMware Tools, Patch upgrades. Implemented Sun Update Manager tools for patching. Created clustering topology in WebSphere application server ND V 5.x, 6.x, 7.x, 8.x to achieve High availability, Load Balancing, Work Load Management and hardware failover. Used Nagios 3.0 to monitor services like Hard Drive, Memory, Users, http, CPU etc. Environment: Solaris 9, Red hat 4/5, Apache 2.2, JBOSS 4.2, Jumpstart, Kickstart, LDOMS 1.2, VMware, Solaris Volume Management, Veritas Cluster Servers. 