SUMMARY Having around 8+ years of IT experience and Strong believer of DevOps Methodologies and working towards a core DevOps engineer who can bring an end to end work flow of Continuous Integration, Continuous Delivery and Continuous Deployment process for an organization. Involved in Agile process, by - weekly Sprints and, daily Scrums to discuss teh progress. Experience in writing chef cookbooks and recipes to automate middleware installations, domain creations and deployment activities. Experience designing and implementing complex, HA multi-tier, end-to-end solutions using a wide variety of private and public cloud offerings, including AWS EC2, S3, ELB, RDS, Route 53, RDS, IAM, and Cloud Front end Auto Scaling. Experience with LAMP setup on RHEL with configuration management tools like chef. Implemented a CD pipeline involving Jenkins + Run deck + Chef to complete teh Automation from commit to Deployment. Knowledge on Vagrant &docker based container deployments to create shelf environments for dev teams and containerization of end's delivery for releases. Branching/Labeling/Merging and other SCM work on various Centralized (SVN, Perforce) and Distributed VCS. Built S3 buckets and managed policies for S3 buckets and used S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS. Worked in Git implementation containing various Remote repositories for a single application. Developing Docker images to support Development and Testing Teams and their pipelines; distributed Jenkins, Selenium, JMeter and ELK stack images. Implemented on AWS platform and its dimensions of scalability including Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, OPS Work and Security Groups. Proposed, Implemented and maintained New Branching strategies for development teams to support trunk, development baseline codes along with several feature branches. Experience in setting up Released based CI jobs based on branches, and environment specific job configurations. Supports teh Dev team with nightly job setup, report generations, troubleshooting build failures and artifactory repository maintenance in nexus or Artifactory. Worked on build automation tools like Ant and Maven, Administering and configuring Nexus Repository Manager for Maven builds. Experience in development and configuration experience with software provisioning tools like Ansible, Puppet. Experience in using Nexus and Art factory Repository Managers for Maven build Managed environments DEV, SIT, QA, UAT and PROD for various releases and designed instance strategies TECHNICAL SKILLS Infrastructure as A service: AWS, open stack (basic understanding) Virtualization Platforms: Virtual Box, Vagrant Build Tools: ANT, MAVEN, Gradle. Configuration management: Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Hudson/Jenkins CI,Test& Build Systems: Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Rundeck, IBM Urban Deploy Application/Web Servers: Web logic, Tomcat, JBoss, Apache Scripting Languages: Bash, Groovy, Shell, Python Logging: Log stash, Nagios. SDLC: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Version Control Software’s: Subversion, Git, Perforce Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Bellevue, WA Sr. DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Build teh development, staging and production software environments and their infrastructure. Support development team in configuring teh required software. Manage teh build activities of multiple teams, delivering multiple releases of services and applications. Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Route 53, and Auto scaling Groups and Cloud Formation. Involved heavily in setting up teh CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Maven, Nexus, SVN, GitHub, CHEF, Terraform and AWS. Automated deployment and release distribution process with Shell and Ruby/Chef. Used Cloud Watch for AWS cloud resources and teh applications that we deployed on AWS (alarm creation, notify service, searching log events/streams) Written Chef Cookbooks and recipes to Provision several pre-prod environments consisting of Deployment automation, AWS EC2 instance mirroring, Web Logic domain creations and several proprietary middleware installations. Written several cookbooks which include recipes to perform Installation and Configuration tasks involving JDK, tomcat, Web Logic binaries installation and domain creations. Worked on Ansible setup, managing hosts file, Using Yaml linter, authoring various playbooks and custom modules with Ansible. Continuously look to improve teh scalability of teh build, release, and deployment processes and operation. Coordinate and support project branches merging process with source code control. Investigation of issues found in teh production environment. Web Logic configuration and support for other teams within IT. Starting aReleaseand Software Configuration Management process including setting up and implementing branching, check in, buildand deployment process. Develop teh automatedbuildand deployment using ant and Hudson/Jenkins using tomcat. Designed several component process and application process and integrated both teh process for success development of an application using IBM Urban Deploy 6.0 Create variousbuildand deployment scenario such as jobs tobuildfrom various branches, deploy tasks to development server or QA server or Staging/Production server using Jenkins. Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker, Maven, Python and Bash. Develop automated deployment scripts using python to deploy war files, properties file and database changes to development server or QA server and Staging/Production server. Develop automated rollback deployment on Staging/Production server. Purpose is to undo previous deployment in database, properties files and war files changes. Participated in DevOps pilot program to test hosted chef implementation to accommodate server provisioning and automate middleware installation activities. Worked teh backend by using node JS, express JS and mongo DB. Worked with Node JS for writing Event Driven Code and wrote requests to retrieve data from database. You should be sure to add only those users who truly need teh permissions associated with that group. Environment: AWS, Chef, Dockers, GIT, Maven, Jenkins, Ansible, VMWARE virtualization, Open Stack, Shell, Ruby Scripting,Python, Nexus, Ruby, Bamboo, Tomcat, Nant, Web Logic, Hudson, Jira, JBoss, TFS, Artifactory. Confidential, San Jose, CA DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Coordinate release activities with Project Management, QA, Release Management and Web Development teams to ensure a smooth and trouble-free roll out of releases. Implemented teh setup for Master slave architecture to improve teh Performance of Jenkins. Administrate / Maintain CI/CD, auto review and verification process for each release in development cycle (using: Jenkins,, GIT, Artifactory, python, Shell etc) Used Jenkins, Bamboo to implement Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat /Weblogic Application Server. Created Chef Recipes for automating teh Infrastructure, deployment process. Managed Nodes, Runlists, roles, environments, databags, cookbooks, recipes in Chef. Deploy, monitor, configure scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS). Launching and configuring of Amazon EC2(AWS) Cloud Servers using AMI's (Linux/Ubuntu) and configuring teh servers for specified applications using Jenkins. Build application and database servers using AWS EC2 and create AMIs as well as use RDS for DB. Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using Chef and Ansible. Enforced SCM policies in teh organisation like “must has commit messgaes in teh check-ins“ by coding, tetsing integrating and maintaining trigger scripts with GIT/SVN version control system. Created glod images of OS servers from scratch via Vagrant and maintained it. Creation of crucial infrastructure as code projects in Cloud Formation as well as deployment strategies to create a true CI/CD pipeline. Expanded continuous integration model to test framework and automation teams by defining, implementing and managing Git and Jenkins processes. Responsible for delivery of new environments with various middleware configurations for newly assigned projects and Performed backfill activities on all environments to bring teh env’s up to current release cycles. Environment: AWS, Chef, SVN, Git, Shell Scripting, ORACLE, Continuous Integration, Jenkins, Maven, Tomcat, WebLogic, JIRA, Linux, Windows. Confidential Linux Admin /DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Creating builds using power shell Scripts, ANT/Maven scripts manually and automated. Troubleshooting deployment and installation issues. Setting up teh build and deployment automation for Java base project by using JENKINS and Maven Responsible for creating and deploying builds on various Web logic environments, testing in build environment and release to test team on scheduled time. Maintained necessary back-up of teh important files and documented Linuxscripts for future reference. Automated teh Build Process using Jenkins. Handling complete Build and Release process including code, documentation and supporting testing team along with teh server Administration Work with QA to facilitate verification of releases. Running multiple builds at a time. Managing Daily Builds, Weekly Builds, Nightly Builds and Builds on fortnight basis. Managed and Administered Web logic 8 and 10.3 Environments. Support for all other AWSproducts such as S3, RDS, Elastic Load Balancing, Route53 (DNS). SVN administration like give access for branches and SVN repositories. Creating SVN repositories and give access rights to teh authorized developers. Assist clients for application code migrations (for lower and higher environments) and Environment related issues. Monitored teh servers and Linux scripts regularly and performed troubleshooting steps - Tested and installed teh latest software on server for end-users. If a new environment TEMPhas to be created it would need to perform teh analysis and requirement gathering from teh respective Application team and tan co-ordinate teh different activities involved with teh same. Configuration changes and new environment setup. Hands on experience with Chef, Puppet, Ansible automation/orchestration Assist Clients and teammates to understand issues and halp/coordinate with multiple teams to resolve issues and make teh environment stable. Project estimation in terms of cost, resources and schedule. Environment: GIT, Ant, Maven, Artifactory, Tomcat, WebSphere, SVN, VMware, Clear Quest Jenkins, Linux, JBOSS, Shell, Perl Scripting, Nexus, JIRA. Confidential System Administrator Responsibilities: Installing and Configuring Linux servers, user administration and profiles. Managed Disk File Systems, server Performance, Users Creation and granted file access Permissions. Created groups, added Users ID to a group as a primary or secondary group, removing Users ID from a group as well as adding users in Sudoers file. I was working here on Linux and Cpanel/WHM servers. We had to deal with tickets and chat and issues related to E-Mail, DNS, Spam, Apache Errors, third party installations and trouble shooting. I had root access to teh servers but teh High level issue had to be escalated to Level III support team. Environment: Linux, DNS, DHCP, Apache, Cpanel and WHM 