SUMMARY About 5 years of experience as a Build/Release/Deployment/Operations (DevOps) engineer wif a strong background in Linux/Unix Administration and best practices of SDLC methodologies like Agile, Scrum, Waterfall, and DevOps/Cloud processes. Maintaining Source Code Management automating the build and deployment process and Software Product Development, Process Automation, Packaging Quality Control, Source Code repository & Environment management. Managing Cloud Services using AWS Cloud Formation, which gives developers and businesses an easy way to create a collection of, related AWS resources and provision them in an orderly and predictable fashion. Strong Experience on AWS platform and its dimensions of scalability including EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, OPS Work, Security Groups. Established Center of Excellence (CoE) for Agile and DEVOPS Transformation for Digital technologies while successfully improving time to market growth by 35% YoY. Experience in Design and Implementation of Enterprise applications and Web based applications usingJava Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation fusing Jenkins along wif Python and Shell scripts to automate routine jobs. Managing 24x7 support for clients on AWS Cloud across various regions. Hands on experience inCI(Continuous Integration),CD(Continuous Delivery) pipelines, strong background in Build and Release Management and Cloud Implementation all wifin that suites the needs of an environment under DevOps Culture. Created deployment tickets using ServiceNow for build deployment in Production. Used ANT and Maven as a build tools onjavaprojects for the development of build artifacts on the source code. Ensured data integrity and data security on AWS technology by implementing AWS best practices. Experience in Implementation of information engineering projects and experience in systems analysis, design and programming using CASE and IE tools and methods. Release and Software Configuration Management on both Linux/Unix and Windows environments. Develop, enhance and maintain the build, deployment and configurations for continuous integration and automate regression and acceptance testing. Provisioned the highly available EC2 Instances using Terraformand cloud formation and wrote new plugins to support new functionality in Terraform. Experience in writing SHELL, Perl and PYTHON, Power Shell scripts to automate the deployments Release Process Implementation like DevOps and Continuous Delivery methodologies to existing Build & Deployment Strategies. Configured Continuous Integration & Delivery in VSTS of a .netproject to Docker containers. Design, installation, configuration and administration of Linux 5,6 and 7 servers and support ofOpenshiftEnterprise and non - Openshiftsupport. The operation and support ofOpenshiftEnterprise and Docker Cloud services. Managed Red Hat Satellite server, implementation of patch management and system configuration. Configuring NFS v3,4, ssh, DNS, Fiber and NFS attached storage, postfix and sendmail. Experience wif Build Management tools like Ant and Maven, Gradle. Experience in Linux/Unix environment (RHEL,CentOS, and Solaris). Administered and Implemented CI tools Hudson/Jenkins, AnthillPro, Chef, Puppet, Bamboo and for automated builds. Configuration Management and source code repository management using tools like GIT, Subversion (SVN), Perforce and PVCS. Hands on experience wif containerization and clustering technologies likeDockerandKubernetes. Good experience in writingUNIXscripts, Perl script, Maven and Ant. Managed Bitbucket and GIT repositories for branching, merging, and tagging. In-depth noledge of computer applications and scripting like Shell, Python, Perl and XML, YAML. Provided assistance to developers in resolving problems. Provision, for deployment, orchestration, and operations across multiple data centers and cloud providers, Core Coverage, Cloud-Specific Infrastructure and Systems and Architecture Cloud Planning Expertise in Enterprise repository management tools like Nexus, Artifactory etc. Experience wif deployment Automation tools (XebiaLabs, AWS Code Deploy, UrbanCode Deploy,Nolio, etc.) Experience in Installing, configuring and maintaining Web Sphere & Web LogicApplication Servers, Nagios andChef Deployed Applications into PROD & Pre-Prod environments wif various Application server technologies like WebLogic, Jboss& Apache Tomcat. Worked on automation of micro-services using tools likeDockerin combination wif Chef, Puppet and their associated components. Building and maintaining systems in WindowsAzurefor development and production systems. This applies to standard VMs as well as otherAzureservices. Deploy Openstack environments through automated tools,Ansible/ custom pipeline and Terraform for Infrastructure Automation. Integrated Jenkins wif various DevOps tools such as Nexus,Sonarqube, Chef etc Getting the list of issues from the components (project, module, file etc.) wif the help ofSonarqube. Interacted wif Users and Application Owners for gathering information required for Application Packaging. Viewing the selected issues of web interface usingSonarqube. Used Maven,Rubyand Bash Scripts for automating build and release tasks. Exposed to all aspects of software development life cycle (SDLC) scuch as Analysis, Planning, Developing, Testing and Implementing and Post-production analysis of the projects. Ability in managing all aspects of the software configuration management process including code compilation, packaging, deployment, release methodology and application configurations. Worked wif different Bug tracking tools like JIRA, Rally, Redmine, Remedy, HP Quality Center and IBM Clear Quest. Build and maintain Oracle PL/SQL packages and stored procedures (using TOAD and PL/SQL developer), Workflows, and SQR reports as requested by client, for Processing and Analysis. Worked in an agile development team to deliver an end to end continuous integration/continuous delivery product in an open source environment using tools like Chef and Jenkins. Managed environments DEV, SIT, QA, UAT and PROD for various releases and designed instance strategies TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: Windows98/XP/NT/ 2000/2003/2008 , UNIX, RHEL/CentOS5.x/6.x/7Linux, Shell and Solaris Configuration Management: Puppet, Chef, Ansible, Rational ClearCase, CVS, PVCS, Perforce and VSS Continuous Build and Cloud Integration: Jenkins, Bamboo, Hudson, Terraform, Azure, AWS Testing Tools: Mercury Interactive Tools (WinRunner 8.0, LoadRunner 7.6), QTP Defect Tracking Tools: Rational Clear Quest, JIRA, Bugzilla, HP Quality Center and Test Director. Web Technologies: Java (JDK 1.5.1, 1.6), Servlets, JSP, XML, and JDBC. Web/App Servers: Apache Tomcat, WPS (WebSphere Portal Server), WAS (Websphere Application Server), HA Proxy, JBoss WebLogic 10x/8x and Tibco (middleware). Databases: MS-SQL Server, Oracle 9i/10g, Siebel systems, DB2, PL/SQL, RDBMS and MS Access. Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, Redmine, Rally, Remedy and IBM Clear Quest Scripting: UNIX Bash/Shell Scripting, Perl scripting, SQL, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Visual Basic, Windows PowerShell Scripting, MS build, ANT, VB/C#.NET, Sed and Awk, Ruby, Python, Power Shell scripting, Bash, Python, UNIX &PERL scripting. Microsoft Technologies: Team Foundation Server, Team Build, Install Shield, SharePoint PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Orlando, Florida AWS / Cloud Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Supporting engineering plans and schedules by providing CM/Release Engineering services to build, deploy, develop scripts, oversee branch and merge strategies, and build automated tools as necessary to offer services to engineering team. Converted and automated builds using Maven and Ant. Scheduled automated nightly builds using Jenkins. Helped developers and other project teams to set views and environments. Created and applied Baselines and Labels for each Build Artifacts. Used Terraform to map more complex dependencies and identify network issue. CreatedCI/CDpipelines and setup auto trigger, auto build and auto deployment wif the help of theCI/CDtool like Jenkins. Hands on experience on Terraform a tool for building, changing, and versioning infrastructure safely and efficiently. Worked wif Terraform key features such as Infrastructure as code, Execution plans, Resource Graphs, Change Automation Created UCM Projects, Development and Integration views for Development and Integration Streams. Worked wif Terraform to create AWS components like EC2, IAM, VPC, ELB, Security groups. Involved in AWS EC2/VPC/S3/SQS/SNS based on automation Terraform, Ansible, Python, Bash Scripts. Managed different infrastructure resources, like physical machines, VMs and even Docker containers using Terraform It supports different Cloud service providers like AWS and Digital Ocean Worked on Multiple AWS instances, set the security groups, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs, Auto scaling to design cost effective, fault tolerant and highly available systems. Launched and configured The Amazon EC2 (AWS) Cloud Servers using AMI's (Linux/Ubuntu) and configuring the servers for specified applications. Created technical framework for Microservices Release Management and Configuration management using Docker images viaContainerbased design andOrchestrationtools via kubernetes. Configured RDS instances using Cloud formations and Terraform. Automated AWS components like EC2 instances, Security groups, ELB, RDS, Lambda and IAM through AWS cloud Formation templates. Developed Site Reliability Engineering model to monitor and measureContainerMetrics, Network Metrics, Logging using PCF Metrics model for AWS and OpenStack cloud clusters Worked wif Cloud Watch to setup Alarms and notify them using SNS. Worked on installation, configuration and maintenance Debian/Redhat,CentOSand SUSE Servers at multiple Data Centers. UsedPowerShellforDevOpsin Windows-based system Enabled AWS, deployments for UAT environments Managed GIT and SVN as Source Control Systems Created Pre-operation and Post-operation triggers in UCM. Responsible for the EBFs (Emergency Bug Fixes) to push them to different environments and monitor their status. Performed merges for each build from Development Branch to Integration Branch. Created the Release Management plan wif the implementation schedule. Worked wif the automated scripts for the Build and Deployment of the applications. Maintained configuration files for each application for build and install on different environments. Created the build instructions docs and install (deploy) instructions docs for each application for different environments. Environment: Java/J2ee, Eclipse, Azure, Terraform, AWS (Amazon Web Services) Ant, Maven, Subversion, PowerShell Scripting, Linux, SVN, GIT, Python, Ruby, Nexus, Sonar, Docker, Check style, Jenkins, bitbucket, CentOS, PERL, BASH, Solaris, UNIX. Confidential, Hartford, Connecticut DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: UsedCloud Frontto deliver content fromAWSedge locations to users, allowing for further reduction of load on front-end servers. UtilizedAWSCLI to automate backups of ephemeral data-stores to S3 buckets, EBS and create nightly AMIs for mission critical production servers as backups. Responsible for maintaining 4-5 Different Testing/QA Environments and erection of the PROD Environment in AWS. Rehydration of AWS servers are performed periodically to upgrade the application's infrastructure to have latest OS and configuration. Develop the method of auto creation of tickets via email for the Netcool monitoring alerts in ITSM. This will allow the Netcool users to be able to send emails to ITSM to create tickets and assign to the supporting work groups based on CIs effected. Developed Process Engineering for Software Development / Designed Teams wif ITILv2 process workflows for Managed Vendor Inquiry and Dispute Billing System Experienced in Amazon EC2 setting up instances, virtual private cloud (VPCs), and security groups. ConfiguredAWSIAM and Security Group in Public and Private Subnets in VPC. Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services(AWS) CreatedAWSRoute53 to route traffic between different regions. Designing and implementing CI (Continuous Integration) system: configuring Jenkins servers, Jenkins nodes, creating required scripts (Perl & Python), and creating/configuring VMs (Windows/Linux). Coordinate/assist developers wif establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming conventions using Subversion (SVN) and Git source control. Configured MID Server and integrated LDAP wif ServiceNow. Migrating and maintaining build and test environments into the Cloud Infrastructure. Managed Git repository, code merging, and production deployments. Worked wif ServiceNow, a tool that handles DCR (defect Change Request) MR (Maintenance Request). Analyzed and resolved conflicts related to merging of source code for SVN and Git. Implemented, maintained, and supported reliable, timely and reproducible builds for project teams. Maintained build related scripts developed in shell for Maven builds. Created and modified build configuration files including POM.xml. Used ANT and MAVEN as a build tools on java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code. Implemented a production ready, load balanced, highly available, fault tolerant Kubernetes infrastructure. Worked wif development/testing, deployment, systems/infrastructure, and project teams to ensure continuous operation of build and test systems. Created Docker images using a Docker file, worked on Docker container snapshots, removing images, and managing Docker volumes. Provisioning environments for Engineering and QA as per the requirements and chasing timelines. Hands-on experience wif setting up Kubernetes (k8s) Clusters for running microservices. Pushed microservices into production wif Kubernetes backed Infrastructure. Designed, deployed, and maintenance of a full stack Kubernetes environment, running on Google Cloud Platform(GCP). Created private cloud using Kubernetes that supports DEV, TEST, and PROD environments. Created private cloud using Kubernetes that supports DEV, TEST, and PROD environments. Used BOTO and Fabric for launching and deploying instances in AWS. UsedCloud watchlogs to move application logs toS3and create alarms based on a few exceptions raised by applications. Managed Kubernetes charts using Helm. Created reproducible builds of the Kubernetes applications, managed Kubernetes manifest files and Managed releases of Helm packages. Managed network security using Load balancer, Auto scaling, Security groups and NACLS. Developed Cloud Formation scripts to automate EC2 instances Utilized Configuration Management Tool Chef & created Chef Cookbooks using recipes to automate system operations. Experience wif analysis of logs and performing root cause analysis for various issues coming up on daily basis Monitoring Live Traffic, logs, Memory utilization, Disk utilization and various other factors which are important for deployment. Environment: Java, Linux, Maven, Nexus, Chef, Puppet, Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes, Nagios, GIT, AWS EC-2, Route 53, S3, VPC, EMR, SQS, Auto scaling, ELB, Shell Scripts, Unix/ Linux environment. Confidential Azure IAM Engineer Responsibilities: AzureIAM/AD engineer working wif enterprise clients in design optimization, deployment, and issue remediation of cloud based and hybrid environments. Remediation tools including use of WireShark, Fiddler, Moloch and Nikto while reviewing problematic function of SSO, MFA, SAML, etc.IAM, IGA reviews, or guidance in review process setup for clients.Installing Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.x/6.x, CentOS and installing packages, patches for Red Hat Linux servers, administrator of Red Hat Satellite Servers to avoid outage and developed strategies for enhanced system resource utilization. Responsible for creation of policies and processes to improved security, compliance and access fulfillment. Designed Roadmap forIAMprogram implementation in a phased, prioritized approach. Researched, designed and architected anIAMprogram, which included managing employees, processes, budget and vendor selection for identity, access and single sign-on. Experience of implementing enterprise systems based on Microsoft Azure PaaS platform using Azure Storage Queue, Azure Table, Azure BLOB, Worker / Web Role and Azure Redis Cache, Azure Deployment and Monitoring, App Service, Logic Apps, Web Jobs, Server less Azure Functions in an integrated development and test environment involving Azure SDK, Visual Studio and Azure Emulator Responsible for Red Hat Linux Designing, Installing, Configure, Security, Backup, and upgrade. Configured Elastic Load Balancer to safeguard that the traffic is distributed uniformly across all the EC2 Instances. Used Simple Storage Services, Glacier, and Elastic Book Store to manage the storage in cloud. Deploy and manage servers through Puppet and scripts, use cloud providers as uninterrupted substrate for implementation. Managed Web Applications, Configuration filpes, User Mount Points, Database, and Packages through Puppet. Managed, configured servers to automate tasks and deploy apps on Virtual Machines, Bare-Metal and Cloud Instances using a tool Foreman along wif Puppet. Puppet is used for Continuous Delivery. Managing ofCI/CDprocess and delivered all application in rpms. Experienced in installing, configuring, administrating Jenkins on Linux machines alongside updating plugins like GIT, Maven, SVN and Puppet. Developed web application using C#.Net, MVC 3.0 Used ADO.NET, Grid View, Data List, Details view, Repeaters and Dataset for data manipulation Involved in migrating subversion SVN to GIT. Involved in designing application-using .NETTechnologies. Experienced in SCM tools GIT/GIT Hub. Ensured the reliability of applications by creating release branches and development branches using GIT Branching. Troubleshoot server issues and registered events since Forced Crash Dumps. Proficient in installing and configuring Nagios, monitoring tool to monitor bandwidth of server network and hard drive status. Improved monitoring in Nagios and custom plugins. Worked on Installation/Configuration/Administrated VMware ESXi 5.1/5.5 & 6.0 and migrated existing servers into VMware Infrastructure. Ensured the continuous operation of build and test systems by efficiently working wif development, testing, deployment, infrastructure, and project teams. Performed coding and debugging using ASP.NETand VB.NET Developed Web forms using ASP.NETserver controls and validated input using Java Script Used ADO.NETobjects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader and Dataset for consistent data access Efficiently worked wif development team, planned future requirements, and held meetings to analyze the usage and create report for the future requirements. Experience wif in working in an Agile / Scrum environment and daily standup meetings. Environment: Linux (RHEL 5.x/6.x), RedHat Satellite Server, AWS, Puppet 3.x, Jenkins 1.x, WebLogic 11, WebSphere 7.0/8.0, Shell Scripting, VMware ESXI 4.x & 5.x, Apache 2.x, Apache Tomcat 6.x/7.x, GIT, Nagios 4.x/5. x. Confidential Linux Administrator Responsibilities: Administration of Sun Servers (SPARCandx86) running Solaris10 and Dell, HP Servers running SUSE, Red hatEL3, 4.x, 5 which included jumpstarting, performing live upgrades of Solaris Installation & Configurations of Red Hat Enterprise Linux, SunSolaris11 andSolaris10 Fedora Linux, Maintenance & System Administration. Responsible for day-to-day systems administration tasks inSolarisand Linux. Creating and growing File system by using Veritas Volume Manager andSolarisvolume manager and CFS file systems. Installed and configured Ldoms in Sun T series. Installed Patches and Packages on Linux (Red Hat) servers and created filesystems by using LVM. Involved in creating and configuring Zones/Containers, zfs filesystems inSolaris10 environment. Responsible for Tracking Remedy tickets and meet the SLA's. Installed packages, patches and SSL certificates on all web servers. Strong noledge ofUnix security(local accounts, SU, SUdo, /etc/password management). Involved in monitoring and configuring NFS servers and NFS clients. Upgraded OBP Firmware for sun hardware. Worked on Backup and restore requests by using NetBackup. Installed and configured Linux/Solarisand Windows operating systems on VMware server. Worked wif KVM and VMware. Wrote shell scripts using Bash to automate day to day admin jobs. Worked wif TCP/IP network configuration. Administered and Configured Logical Volume Manager which involved create and modify file system, logical volume, Physical volume, Volume groups, mirroring and un-mirroring of volume groups, hot spare physical volume. Performed upgrade on Red hat Linux whenever required.OperatingsystemsandKick-startingRedhatEL3, 4.x, 5. Used ANT and MAVEN as build tools on Java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code. Deployed the Java applications into web application servers like Web logic. Consolidated infrastructure resources to cloud managed resources, Designed and Implemented Cisco UCS Director, VMware vCloud Suite and EMC ViPR Controller, ViPR SRM as well as RedHat OpenStack based cloud solutions, wif backend EMC ScaleIO for block storage, Elastic Cloud Storage (ECS) for object storage and Isilon Storage for file and VBLOCK Storage based solutions for various clients. n call support rotation basis. Environment: s: - Red Hat Linux (RHEL 4/5), UNIX, Logical Volume Manager, Global File System, Red Hat Cluster Servers, Oracle, MySQL, DNS, NIS, NFS, Apache, Tomcat, SAN, RAID levels, SUSE, CQL, VMware, Maven, ANT, Jenkins. 