SUMMARY Having 7+ years of combined professional experience in teh IT and 5+ years of AWS and DevOps wif strong background in agile environment, Continuous delivery and deployment, Build and Release management and System Administration. Experience in administration, deployment and management across various platforms - UNIX, Linux and Windows. Expertise wif AWS platform features of VPC (Subnets, NACLs, EIPs, VPC Peeing and Direct Connect), EC2 (Provisioning, Reserved, Spot instances, clusters), Security groups, Auto scaling (ELB, groups), Monitoring (Cloudwatch, SNS, Cloud trail, Health checks), Data Storage (S3, Glacier, EBS, EFS), Route53, Cloudfront, Cloudformation, IAM, Database (RDS, DynamoDB, Redshift). Developed utilities in Shell and Python scripting to automate processes. Working on creating templates for AWS Cloudformation for easy provisioning of VPC and services in times of backup and recovery. Experience wif source control management systems like Git, Subversion and used them to initiate continuous integration tools like Jenkins. Expertise in writing Ansible playbooks and creating roles for configuration management of servers and their orchestration using YAML. Expertise of puppet as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploy critical applications, and proactively manages change. Created cloud front for accelerated delivery of websites, APIs and content by routing teh traffic using Route 53. Build pipeline setup using Jenkins wif tools plugins of Git, Maven/ ANT, Ansible, Nagios for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment. Experience wif bash and python scripting for automation of tasks. Worked on provisioning and deploying Docker containers, swarms and stacks. Working experience wif AWS EC2 Container Service and managing teh services and tasks. Excellent communication, leadership skills wif mindfulness and proficient time management. Working experience in Agile development environment and exposed to all aspects of software development lifecycle and DevOps culture of improved collaboration and continuous improvement. TECHNICAL SKILLS Cloud: Amazon we services: EC2, S3, ELB, auto scaling Servers, Glacier, Storage Lifecycle rules, Cloud Front, Elastic ache, RDS, VPC, Direct Connect, Route 53, Cloud watch, Cloud trail, IAM Roles, SNS. Operating Systems: Linux, Ubuntu, Windows Scripting Languages: Java Script, Python, Perl Configuration Management: Ansible, Knowledge of Chef, Puppet Source Version Control: Git, SVN Build Tools: Maven, Jenkins Programming Languages: C++, Java, SQL, HTML CICD: Jenkins Virtualization: VMWare Containerization: Docker Monitoring Tools: Cloud watch PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Detroit, MI AWS DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Design roles and groups using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) and Managed hardware, software, and networking for a large scale cluster on Amazon EC2. Used security groups, IAM roles, scaling groups, load balancers, Monitored EC2 instances wif Cloud watch. Experience wif analysis of logs and performing root cause analysis for various issues coming up on daily basis. Decent knowledge on Dynamo DB and Amazon EMR and Created periodic EBS snapshots and rebuilt new EBS volumes from these snapshots to migrate applications. Used DNS management in Route53, Amazon S3 to backup database instances to save snapshots of data and Manage Network allocation in VPC to create new public networks. Maintained build related scripts developed in ANT and Shell. Modified build configuration files including Ant build.xml and Created and maintained Subversion repositories, branches and tags and Experience in Administering SVN. Designed highly available, cost TEMPeffective and fault tolerant systems using multiple EC2 instances, Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balance and AMIs. Creating S3 buckets and also managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS. Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. Lead various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Requirements analysis, Design, Development, and Implementation, Testing for Enterprise applications. Installed, configured and maintained web servers like HTTP Web Server, Apache Web Server and WebSphere Application Server on Red Hat Linux. Environment: UNIX, windows, CVS, GIT, Puppet, EC2, S3, IAM Jenkins, Maven, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, Subversion, Apache Tomcat, WebSphere Application Server, VMWare, Red hat Cluster Servers. Confidential, Columbus, Ohio AWS DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in DevOps migration/automation processes for build and deployment. Develop solutions based on teh designs that fulfill teh documented requirements. Monitor teh Testing/Production Environment for any down time and issues. Creating/Performing Cron job updates on servers. Setting up teh SVN and GIT repos for Version Control and Jenkins build jobs. Designed and implemented scalable, secure cloud architecture on AWS. Worked on IAM to manage teh users and groups using IAM by assigning policies and roles to each user as per requirements. Used CloudWatch and SNS for monitoring AWS Cloud resources and teh application that were deployed on AWS by creating new alarm and enabling notifications. Implement a continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins, CHEF in Linux Environment. Configured multiple cookbooks, recipes, templates and attributes on workstations to be deployed to various chef nodes. Create read replicas of AWS RDS in multiple Availability Zone using backups and snapshots and scaling out based on requirements. Manage AWS EC2 instances utilizing Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancer for QA and UAT environments as well as infrastructure servers for GIT and Puppet. Environment: EC2, VPC, ELB, S3, RDS, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, Amazon Redshift, VPC, EBS, IAM roles, Cloud watch, AWS Auto Scaling, Unix/Linux, Shell scripting. Confidential - Chicago, IL AWS Consultant Responsibilities: Build and configured a virtual data center in teh AWS cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) hosting including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups, Route Tables, Elastic Load Balancer (ELB). Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates. Maintained teh user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53, VPC, RDB, Dynamo DB, SES, SQS and SNS services in AWS cloud. Setup AWS billing alerts for budget optimization. Provide highly durable and available data by using S3 data store, versioning, lifecycle policies, and create AMIs for mission critical production servers for backup. Manage source code, software builds, software versioning, & defect tracking on software maintenance tasks/ projects. Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch. Created Python scripts to totally automate AWS services which includes web servers, ELB, Cloud Front distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration, this script creates stacks, single servers, or joins web servers to stacks. Troubleshoot teh automation of Installing and configuring applications in teh test environments. Environment: EC2, VPC, ELB, S3, RDS, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, Amazon Redshift, VPC, EBS, IAM roles, Cloud watch, AWS Auto Scaling, Unix/Linux, Shell scripting. Confidential, Orlando, FL AWS DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Participated in weekly release meetings wif Technology stakeholders to identify and mitigate potential risks associated wif teh releases. Extensively worked on setting up cloud infrastructure required for various environments wif AWS. Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining, and troubleshooting EC2 instances, S3 buckets, Virtual Private Clouds (VPC), Cloud Formation Template, Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS). Experienced in Cloud automation, resource creation and orchestration using AWS Cloud Formation templates and Terraform. Involved in merging, delivering, and rebasing from dev branch to higher level branches in Git. Also, installed configured various Jenkins plug-ins to automate Continuous build deployments. Working experience on Ansible. Setup a vagrant on Virtual box and installed Python and run playbooksand to Automate system/server configuration. Experience in managing Ansible Playbooks wif Ansible roles. Created inventory in Ansible for automating teh continuous deployment. Developed and implemented Software Release Management strategies for various applications according to teh agile process. Worked wif different development teams and multiple simultaneous software releases. Involved in setting up JIRA as defect tracking system and configured various workflows, customizations and plugins for teh JIRA bug/issue tracker. Creating teh automated build and deployment process for application, re-engineering setup for better user experience, and leading up to building a continuous integration system for all our products. End to End Client Server Installation & Customization of Jenkins through teh automation of build/deployment process for respective application/project. Environment build and deployment automation using Docker containers, Vagrant, and Chef. Environment: Maven, Jenkins, Ansible, Shell Scripts, SVN, GitHub, AWS, VMware, Apache, and Docker. Confidential, PA System Engineer Responsibilities: Assisted in deploying updates to teh internal university webpages. Developed Screens for teh Marketing Department of teh University for log in system Maintained system logs and was responsible for lab administrative activities in teh Engineering Department Worked wif teh marketing team in deploying and maintaining advertisements across teh university campus. Experienced in system upgrades and performance tuning in various departments infrastructure. Worked wif teh Public Safety of teh Campus in developing an application for easy-reporting to teh police Environment: Windows Server 2003, IBM Tivoli, Bash, PHP, HTML, CSS 