SUMMARY AWS certified 8+ years of experience in IT industry with the ability to accomplish all aspects of Different Cloud Services, DevOps, Build and Release Management, Software Configuration Management, Source Control and Application Server Management, and System Administration. Designed, Configured and Managed public and private cloud infrastructures using AWS, and AZURE. Hands On experience with AWS cloud services like IAM, S3, EC2, EMR, DynamoDB, EBS, ELB, DNS, Route 53, AMI, VPC, CloudWatch, Auto scaling, SNS, SQS, Security Groups, CloudFront, Snowball, CloudTrail, CloudFormation, hive, EFS, RDS, and Glacier. Experience in designing, configuring and deploying Amazon Web Services for applications using the AWS stack (including EC2, S3, RDS, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, SQS, and IAM) focusing on high availability, fault tolerance, and auto - scaling. Migrated Servers, Databases and Applications from Microsoft Azure to AWS. Worked on various Azure services like Compute (Web roles and Worker roles), Caching, Storage, SQL Azure, NoSQL, Network Services, Azure Active Directory, Scheduling, Auto scaling and PowerShell Automation. Experienced in creating and managing pipelines using Azure Data Factory, copying data, configuring data flow in and out of Azure Data Lake Stores according to technical requirements. Implemented Infrastructure automation through Ansible for auto-provisioning, code deployments, software installation and configuration updates. Experienced in writing various custom Ansible playbooks for deployment orchestration and to simplify, automate day-to-day server administration tasks Extensive experience in using build tools like MAVEN, ANT, and Xcode for the building of deployable artifacts from source code. Extensively worked on migrating legacy ASP web pages into ASP.NET pages. Developed system-defined namespaces and user-defined namespaces. Proficient in developing server-side applications using ASP.NET MVC and ASP.NET web forms. Conceived, designed, installed and implemented a Puppet configuration management system to manage configurations and automate installations across multiple nodes in the cluster. Experience in developing scripts using RESTful API models for the purposes of integrating workflows with AWS. Experience in working with container-based deployments using Docker, Docker images, Docker file, Docker Hub, Docker Compose and Docker registry, Used Docker-Swarm to maintain the cluster of containers. Experience with scheduling, deploying, managing container replicas onto a node cluster using Kubernetes and in creating Kubernetes clusters work with frameworks running on the same cluster resources. Hands on Experience on Active MQ, Mulesoft (Cloud and on-premise) middleware. Extensively involved in infrastructure as code, execution plans, resource graph and change automation using Terraform and Managed AWS infrastructure as code using Terraform. Experience with Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment methodologies using Jenkins, Hudson, and Bamboo to implement the End-To-End automation. Implemented and supported the Continuous Integration process via Jenkins and Bamboo for several java applications including setting up pipeline jobs and downstream job configurations in Jenkins. Experienced in using build tools like Maven, Ant, and Gradle for the building of deployable artifacts from source code and pushing them into the Nexus repository. Experienced in Branching, Merging, Tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like GIT and SVN, perforce on UNIX and Windows environments, migrated SVN repositories to GIT. Experienced in build and deployment of Java applications on to different environments such as QA, UAT and Production. Hands-on experience in accessing AWS Elastic Beanstalk using AWS Elastic Beanstalk command line interface to deploy and manage Java, .NET, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, Go, and Docker web applications. Experience in using ELK (Elastic Search, Log Stash, and Kibana) stack for network and server monitoring, storing the logs and visualizing them using Nginx. Experience in creating Nagios Monitoring infrastructure and various Nagios plugins Script based on Perl, Python, GoLang for checking the health of App servers and for monitoring loads. Hands-on experience in Linux based database management systems like RDBMS, MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra, NoSQL and programming languages like JAVA, and .NET. Experience in web application design and development with Object Oriented technologies using Java / J2EE. Experience in using Tomcat web server and JBoss, WebLogic and WebSphere application servers for deployment. Good scripting noledge on Pearl, Bash, Shell, Python, GoLang, PHP scripts for automation of the build and release process. Worked with Python libraries like beautiful soap, SQL Alchemy, Matplotlib, NumPy, Pillow and wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and loaded the data into the database. Installing, configuring and maintaining the networking protocols such as TCP/IP tuning, Ethernet bonding, DNS, NFS, SMTP, FTP, and HTTP. Experience in working with Tracking Tools Remedy, JIRA and HPSM. Working with application infrastructure architects to establish the physical environments to effectively perform the software builds and deployments with an emphasis on quality, integrity, and security. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: Linux (Red Hat, CENTOS & SUSE), Ubuntu, Solaris, DEBAIN, HP-UX, Windows Cloud Technologies: AWS, Microsoft Azure, Open stack, Docker, Rackspace, Container Databases: MySQL, SQL Server, ORACLE, MongoDB, Redis Monitoring Tools: Cloud Watch, Nagios, Wireshark, Splunk Automation and Build Tools: Maven, Gradle Sonar, Nexus, Ant, Xcode Configuration Management Tools: Chef, Puppet, Ansible Virtualization Tools: VMware, Oracle Virtual box Version Control Tools: GIT, GITHUB, TFS, Subversion (SVN), CVS and Bitbucket Scripting: Shell Scripting, Groovy, GoLang, Python, Ruby, Perl and Power Shell Programming: Network/Infrastructure: C, Html, CSS, Java: TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, Cisco Routers/Switches, WAN, LAN, FTP/TFTP, SMTP PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Menomonee Falls, WI DevOps/ Cloud Engineer Responsibilities: Built and configured EC2 instances on AWS cloud platform (AWS as IaaS), configured Elastic Load Balancer for traffic control for the EC2 and S3 buckets. Worked with AWS S3 and IAM services, created S3 buckets, and configured them with permissions, logging, versioning, and tagging and created new IAM users and groups, defined roles, policies, and identity providers. Configured IAM roles for EC2 instances and assigned them policies granting specific level access to S3 bucket. Created S3 buckets and bucket policies and utilized S3 buckets and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS. Configured AWS IAM and security Groups in Public and Subnets in VPC. Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls dat controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances. Implemented Elastic Load Balancer (ELB’s) and Auto-scaling groups in AWS on production EC2 instances to build Fault-Tolerant and highly available applications. Implemented a server-less architecture using API Gateway, Lambda, and DynamoDB and deployed AWS Lambda code from Amazon S3 buckets. Created a Lambda deployment function, configured it to receive events from our S3 buckets and provisioned Lambda functions to create a Log stash for centralized logging. Designed, implemented, maintained and troubleshooting of High available critical applications running on Apache and My SQL/PostgreSQL database. Launched database for MySQL and Oracle using RDS in multiple Availability Zones, set up monitoring for CPU utilization and limited DB connections by implementing alarms using Cloud Watch. Developed custom functionality using excel services and the SharePoint REST API. Registered domain names and configured Route 53 to route internet traffic for our domains and finally configured Route 53 to check the health of our resources. Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of web applications and database templates. Created AWS VPC network for the installed instances and configured the Security Groups and Elastic IP’s accordingly. Designed, Architected and implemented the Platform as a service built for Multi-tenant platform within the Hybrid cloud infrastructure within AWS. Used Ansible as a configuration management tool to automate repetitive tasks and to quickly deploy critical applications, by using Ansible playbooks, modules and roles. Worked on creating inventory, job templates and scheduling jobs using Ansible tower and writing Python modules for Ansible customization. Integrated Ansible dynamic inventory for the Virtual box, Open stack, AWS EC2, Docker for full automated deployment in all the environments to support scaling required. Wrote Ansible playbooks for different automation. Used Docker to virtualize the servers for the Dev and Test environment needs, implemented Docker containers to configure automation and for creating various environments to deploy the application which reduces the cost for the enterprise. Configured Docker containers by creating Docker Compose files and pushed the Docker Images onto EC2 instances from Docker-Registry to deploy the applications using both Kubernetes and Docker Swarm. Integrated Docker container orchestration framework using cloud native technologies like Kubernetes by creating pods, config Maps, and deployments. Managed Kubernetes charts using Helm and created reproducible builds of the Kubernetes applications and managed Kubernetes manifest files. Used Kubernetes for creating new Projects, Services for load balancing and adding to Routes by accessing from outside, created Pods through the new application and controlling, scaling and troubleshooting pods through SSH. Implemented SSL certificate on Apache, Weblogic application servers and on IIS. Performance tuning of WebLogic server with respect to heap, threads and connection pools. Integrated Jenkins with various DevOps tools such as Nexus, SonarQube, Maven, and developed Jenkins jobs to automatically manage, test and deploy code and applications. Created, tested and deployed an end-to-end CI/CD pipeline for various applications using Jenkins as the main Integration server for Dev, QA, Staging and Prod environments. Implemented new project builds the framework using Jenkins, Maven, Gradle, and SonarQube as build framework tools. Used Maven as build tool on java projects to build artifacts on the source code, and defined dependencies and plugins in POM.xml for various required activities to be done. Integrated Maven with GIT to manage and deploy project related tags. Hands on experience in building GUIs using JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, CSS2, JSP, JSON, XML and DTD. Assisted developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, naming conventions using GIT source control, implemented GIT mirror for SVN repository to enable users to use both GIT and SVN. Deployed and managed web services with Tomcat and JBoss, developed and maintained the continuous integration and deployment systems using Jenkins, Maven, JBoss, and JFROG Artifactory. Used Nagios as a monitoring tool to identify and resolve infrastructure problems before they affect critical processes and worked on Nagios event handlers in case of an automatic restart of failed applications and services. Deployed and configured Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana (ELK) for log analytics, full-text search and application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and CloudWatch. Configured and deployed Atlassian tool JIRA for both hosting and issue tracking for local instances, workflow collaboration and toolchain automation. Environment: Git, SVN, Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Bamboo, Chef, Ansible, Gradle, Xcode, Terraform, Docker, Kubernetes, JBoss, Tomcat, ELK, Agile/Scrum, IaaS optimization, PostgreSQL, Weblogic, SDLC, Nginx, S3, EC2, ELB, EBS, Route 53, DNS, VPN, SQS, EMR, CloudWatch, Auto Scaling, Snow Ball, CloudFormation, IAM, Nagios, JIRA, Ruby, Shell, GoLang, Python scripts Confidential - Franklin Lakes, NJ DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Built and migrated applications on Microsoft Azure Cloud Platform on different cloud service offering cloud solutions like IaaS and PaaS Azure Platforms and Automation processes within Azure via portal and PowerShell including Run Books and Scheduling Automation. Installed and Configured ADFS for efficient and secure SSO to applications and systems between on-premises and Azure AD. Written numerous ARM templates for template only deployment procedures and automated some templates deployment through Azure Functions. Setup security pipeline for vulnerability management and auto-remediation using Azure Security Center and automate remediations with Azure Functions. Created and deployed VMs on the Microsoft cloud service Azure, created and managed the virtual networks to connect all the servers and designed ARM templates for Azure platform. Implemented Network traffic rules and Access Control Lists (ACL) for Virtual Network in Microsoft Azure Cloud Service Platform. For automation in Azure configured Azure Runbooks of type PowerShell workflow which allowed the use of Parallel Processing to perform multiple actions in parallel. Implemented Azure Storage, Azure SQL Azure Services and developing Azure Web role. Involved in the design and development of web application in C#.NET, ASP. Net, User Controls and deployment in the Azure cloud (Azure as PaaS) environment. Proficient with the use of REST APIs and webhooks (ServiceNow, System Center Orchestrator, RedHat Cloud Forms, SalesForce, and/or JIRA integration). Configured and deployed Chef Server including bootstrapping of Chef Client nodes for provisioning, created roles, recipes, cookbooks and data bags for server configuration. Written Chef Cookbooks using several of its components like attributes, files, recipes, resources, and templates, validated them with test kitchen and configured recipes and cookbooks to install and configure node.js on the number of servers. Written wrapper scripts to automate the deployment of Chef Cookbooks on nodes and running the Chef Client on them in a Chef-Solo environment. Automated the cloud deployment using Chef, Python, GoLang, and, AWS Cloud Formation Templates. Developed PowerShell scripts to automate the project creation, setting permissions for users, groups in TFS. Worked on several resources of AWS and Rackspace cloud depending on the client requirements. Designed, installed and implemented Ansible configuration management system, written Ansible playbooks and deployed applications. Used Git to store the code, integrated Ansible Tower with Git to deploy the Playbooks. Implemented and designed AWS virtual servers by Ansible roles to ensure deployment of web applications. Written Ansible Playbooks with Python SSH as the wrapper to manage configurations of AWS nodes, tested Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Worked on several Docker components like Docker Engine, Docker Hub, Docker Compose, Docker Registry and Docker Swarm. Created Docker images and handled multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations. Extensively worked on Docker service rolling updates to implement zero downtime PROD deployments Worked with Docker container snapshots, attaching to a running container, managing containers, directory structures and removing Docker images. Used Docker Swarm to maintain the cluster of containers and written a Docker compose file in YAML to spin up the containers at the same time. Developed automation of Kubernetes clusters with both Fleet and Ansible, evaluated Mesos/Marathon and Kubernetes for Docker container orchestration. Managed local deployments in Kubernetes. Supported the process of the first-time configuration of Web Applications using Vagrant along with Chef and Ansible for provisioning. Automated the test scripts using Visual Studio Team Services VSTS framework with MTM interface integration and Coded UI. Configured Jenkins as a CI engine to build and promote applications to QA, UAT and Staging environments and integrated Jenkins with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds. Designed and created multiple deployment strategies using Continuous Integration, Continuous Development pipelines and configuration management tools with remote execution to ensure zero downtime and shortened deployment cycles via automated deployments. Involved in writing Maven build scripts for generating Java-based artifacts such as JAR, WAR, and EAR and set up an automated nightly build environment for Java projects. Managed the source code control of multiple development efforts using Clear Case, Subversion, TFS, Git, Github and CVS version control tools. Managed extensive infrastructure changes for MuleSoft to provide better performance, consistency, flexibility, and supportability. Supported Deployments into PROD & Pre-Prod environments with multiple Application server technologies like WebLogic, JBoss and Apache Tomcat. Designed an ELK system to monitor and search enterprise alerts. Installed, configured and managed the ELK Stack for log management within EC2/ELB for Elastic Search. Built and managed a highly available monitoring infrastructure to monitor different application servers and its components using Nagios, with Chef Automation. Created JIRA issues to prioritize and take action on wat’s important and stayed up to date with wat’s going on around the project. Environment: Microsoft Azure ARM, Azure Runbooks, Azure Data factory, VMware, Tomcat Apache, AWS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, Ruby, Python, Dynamo DB, Nagios, Git, Kubernetes, Linux, Ruby, Jenkins, Maven, Chef, Openstack Confidential - Santa Clara, CA Build & Release Engineer Responsibilities: Automated the build and release management process including monitoring changes between releases, developed, maintained and distributed release notes for each scheduled release. Developed Perl and Shell scripts for automation of the build and release process. Defined processes to build and deliver software baselines for internal as well as external customers and performed software configuration/release management activities for different JAVA applications. Designed and implemented a Continuous Integration process using tools like Hudson with approval from development and other affected teams. Used Hudson in setting up CI/CD pipeline to deliver the software with better quality and fast by using different plugins like EMMA, check style and find bugs resources. Created views and appropriate meta-data, performed merges and executed builds on a pool of dedicated build machines. Created Subversion configuration record for builds using derived objects generated during the build audit process. Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT as a build tool and Hudson as an automation tool to move from one environment to other environments. Involved in tweaking the existing ANT files in case of errors or changes in the project requirements. Used Puppet Enterprise to manage application configurations and utilized BASH Scripts and right scale to do initial server provisioning, and Puppet to deploy and update applications including Apache, Tomcat, MySQL and other proprietary applications. Written Puppet manifests to automate the configuration of an abroad range of services across multiple nodes in the cluster. Performed SVN merge and resolve conflicts if present once the code is deployed into the production environment to feature branch is ready to be released. Integrated JIRA and Subversion using Pre-commit hooks to ensure the process is followed and automated JIRA tasks using JIRA CLI. Administered and deployed applications on Apache Web server and Application Servers such as Tomcat, JBoss, and WebSphere. Environment: Subversion, Hudson, ANT, Puppet, Java, JIRA, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, JBoss, WebSphere, Python and Shell scripts Confidential - Greenwood Village, CO  Release Engineer Responsibilities: Used Subversion as source code repositories. Managed SVN repositories for branching, merging, and tagging. Developed Shell/Perl Scripts for automation purpose. Implemented multi-tier application provisioning in OpenStack cloud, integrating it with Chef/Puppet. Responsible for designing and deploying best SCM processes and procedures. Designing and implementing fully automated server build management, monitoring and deployment By Using Technologies like Chef. Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems. Maintained and coordinated environment configuration, controls, code integrity, and code conflict resolution. Used SVN for branching, tagging and merging. Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins CI tool on Linux machines. Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labelling/naming conventions using GIT source control. Analyze and resolve conflicts related to merging of source code for GIT. Improved the performance of SQL scripts by using ORM methodology. Installed and Configured the Nexus repository manager for sharing the artifacts within the company. Supported and developed tools for integration, automated testing and release management. Verified if the methods used to create and recreate software builds are consistent and repeatable. Involved in Research of the project application architecture to support/resolve build, compile, and test issues/problems. Environment: Java/J2EE, ANT, Maven, Subversion, Chef, Puppet, ORM, Linux, AWS, OpenStack, Shell/Perl Scripts, Python, SCM, GIT, Jenkins, Tomcat, Jira Confidential Release Engineer Responsibilities: Developed UNIX scripts for build and release tasks. Worked on SCM tasks mostly on solving complex branching and merging problems. Solved all the various tree conflicts, text conflicts which arise in major complex merging issues in SCM. Developed Customized scripts in Jenkins which would automate the process according to the requirement. Deployment of builds was done through Jenkins. Created and deployed web interfaces reporting on multi-platform automated builds and test suites (TFS build reporting, SharePoint Server, Cruise Control and IIS) Configuring AnthillPro as a common build engine to build and promote applications to DEV, QA, UAT and POD to UNIX environments. Merged all the release branches back to trunk after solving the conflicts. Performed IBM Websphere Administrative tasks like installing WAS, Configuring ND, Cell, Nodes, Cluster and aided in usage of High Availability Mgr Proposed and implemented branching strategy suitable for agile development in Subversion. Also participated in meetings which involved process improvement on the wholesale business. Involved in documenting the solutions of the conflicts in SVN for future use. Configuration management activities on TFS and PVCS Responsible for the deployments done in various enviroments through Jenkins. Managed Continuous integration build and deploy jobs using Jenkins for various configurations. Provided on call support during any issues after the release process. Environment: Ant, Hudson/Jenkins, Maven, WebSphere, Subversion, Linux, Perl, Shell. TFS. Confidential  Linux Admin Responsibilities: Monitoring, analysing, and responding to security events utilizing security event management and reporting tools. Account,user and group administration, Permissions policy management and quota implementation. Systemperformance monitoring, tuning andlog management. TCP/IP Networking troubleshooting and Linux Network Administration. Worked closely with network/incident analysts and IC analysts to monitor current attack and threat information to identify. Installation, configuration, support and security implementation on following services: DHCP: Range of IP, Assigning fixed IP to MAC address. SSH: Configuring Servers, password-less authentication configuration. NFS: Configuration, administration, on demand mounting. SAMBA: Sharing folders, printers with Win32 & Win64 system, Creating SAMBA users. NIS: Server and client configuration. Configured Implemented, Administered and Troubleshoot skills with network protocols of DHCP, DNS, TCP/IP, SMTP and SNMP servers. DNS: Server configuration and maintenance. E-mail: Postfix, Dovecot configuration, user management, relay, alias, Procmail configuration. Implemented and maintained server virtualization using VMware, ESXi and Oracle Virtual Manager. Coordinated with application team in installation, configuration and troubleshoot issues with JBoss servers. Installation and configuration of database systems e.g. MySQL, Oracle. Involved in creating virtual machine using Oracle Virtual Manager, creating server pool, VM cloning. Involved in setup Storage Area Network (SAN) and NAS and file systembackup and restore. 24x7 on-call rotation for support of production systems. Environment: VMware, TCP/IP, ESXi, Red Hat, BASH, Apache, JBoss, IBMServer, MYSQL, Oracle, LINUX 