SUMMARY Around 5+ years of IT work experience in Automating, configuring and deploying instances on cloud environments and Data centers. Experience working with various AWS services like EC2, ECS, S3, Cloud formation, IAM etc. Experience in teh areas of DevOps CI/CD pipeline, Build and release management, AWS and Linux Administration. Expert in using Talend for Data integration and data processing. Involved in designing and deploying applications utilizing almost all AWS stack like EC2, Route53, S3, ELB, EBS, VPC, RDS, DynamoDB, SNS, SQS, IAM and focusing on high availability, fault tolerance and auto - scaling in AWS Cloud formation, deployment services (OpsWorks and Cloud Formation) and security practices (IAM, CloudWatch and CloudTrail). Proficiency in using cloud computing tools like AWS, CVS, Subversion, VTFS, Perforce, GIT and Rational Clear Case on UNIX and Windows environment. Knowledge on DevOps tools and technologies such as Vagrant, Jenkins, Chef, Puppet, Docker, GIT, Splunk, JIRA, Agile, Ansible, NAGIOS etc. Good understanding of Operating Systems like Linux (Red Hat Enterprise), Ubuntu, CentOS, UNIX, Windows. Experience in cloud automation using AWS cloud Formation Templates, Chef, Puppet and Ansible. Involved heavily in setting up teh CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Maven, GitHub, Puppet, Terraform and AWS. Implemented multiple CI/CD pipelines as a part of DevOps role for on-premises and cloud-based software using Jenkins, Chef and AWS/Docker. Experienced in branching, tagging and rebasing/merging and maintaining teh version across teh environments using SCM tools like GIT and Subversion (SVN) on Linux and Windows platforms. Expertise in using Build Automations tools and Continuous Integration concepts by using tools like Jenkins, Bamboo, Team city, Quick Build, Build forge, Maven, Gradle and Ant. Experience working with OpenShift Enterprise which allows developers to quickly develop, host, and scale applications in a self-managed cloud environment. Worked directly with Amazon Web Service architects to halp reproduce and resolve customer issues. Expertise in Deploying and troubleshooting teh J2EE Applications (WAR & EAR) in WebSphere Application Server. Expert in deploying teh code through web application servers like WebSphere/Web Logic/ Apache Tomcat/JBOSS. Developed Puppet modules to automate application installation and configuration management. Experience in troubleshooting, configuring and deploying enterprise application in JBoss and Tomcat as well. Experience on Rackspace OpenStack Management services like Dedicated Hosting, Cloud storage and servers, managed Databases in OpenStack on different projects. Good knowledge on working with tracking tools like JIRA, Bugzilla, Remedy. Knowledge on Vagrant, Docker based containerization environment delivery for releases. Designed and implemented CI/CD using Jenkins and Ansible to provide an end to end monitoring and deployment. Good knowledge on setting up monitoring tools like Splunk, Nagios and Amazon Cloud Watch to monitor major metrics like Network packets, CPU utilization and Load Balancer. TECHNICAL SKILLS Cloud: AWS(EC2, ECS, S3, Cloud Formation, IAM etc), OpenStack Monitoring: Nagios, Splunk, Netcool, Keynotes, Zabbix, Solarwinds Configuration Management: Chef, Puppet, Ansible Programming Languages & Scripts: C, C++, Python, Java, JavaScript, Bash, Batch Scripting Databases: MySQL, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, Hive, MongoDB. Continuous Integration: Jenkins, Bamboo, Maven, Ant, TFS build Software Tools: Talend, Tableau, Amazon Glue. Version Controls: GIT/GitHub, SVN, Subversion Operating Systems: Windows, Mac OS, UNIX and Linux, Ubuntu PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Worked on teh Deployment, Configuration, Monitoring and Maintenance of OpenShift Container Platform. Experience on Open Shift, Kubernetes, Docker to manage micro services for development of Continuous integration and continuous Deployment. Used OpenShift to improve application security by putting admin consoles on different Docker containers accessible only from unusual port numbers. Developed build using ANT & MAVEN as build tools and used CI to kick off builds move from environments. Participated in teh release cycle of teh product, which involves environments like developments QA and production. Involved in setting up builds using Chef as a configuration management tool. Used Chef to configure and manage infrastructure. Wrote cookbooks to automate teh configuration setups. Established Chef Best practices to system deployment with tools with vagrant and managing Chef Cookbook as a unit of software deployment and independently version controlled. Designed & developed shell scripts. Compiled builds using pom.xml and build.xml. Used teh continuous integration tool such as Jenkins and Hudson for automating teh build processes. Used teh version control system GIT to access teh repositories and used in coordinating with CI tools. Integrated maven with GIT to manage and deploy project related tags. Installed and configured GIT and communicating with teh repositories in GITHUB. Performed day-to-day GIT support for different projects. Created & maintained GIT repositories, branches & tags. Assisted end-to-end release process from planning release content through to actual release deployment to production Deployed Java/J2EE application on to teh Apache Tomcat server and configured it to host teh websites. Deployed application packages on to Apache Tomcat server. Coordinated with software development & QA teams Executed teh planning of product software releases and performed clean builds according to scheduled releases. Verified whether teh methods used to create and recreate software builds are reliable and repeatable. Identified teh Data Source and defining them to build teh Data Source Views. Deployed teh build artifacts into environments like QA, UAT according to teh build life cycle. Deployed RDS and Dynamo DB instances on AWS infrastructure. Environment: Java, Eclipse, Toad, Git, Tomcat, Apache, Oracle 12c, Jenkins, Python, Ruby Chef, JIRA, Maven, Art factory, Ubuntu, CentOS, Linux, AWS, AWS Cloud Formation Templates, AWS RDS, AWS Cloud Watch, Ruby, Chef-solo/server. Confidential Software Engineer Responsibilities: Developed data extract jobs for teh financial clients of first data. Developed batch jobs to Encrypt sensitive data (PII data) at rest used by teh multiple financial/payment applications using voltage encryption services. Done Voltage encryption integration with teh Talend. Developed Talend jobs to migrate data from AES encryption to voltage encryption. Handled large amount of structured data for multiple applications multiple tables, each table with 15 to 20 billion records. Moving BI reporting application from legacy MySQL, Linux environment to first data Data Lake in Amazon cloud. Using python to dump teh raw csv files and table data from multiple data sources to Amazon s3 bucket. Developed Amazon glue jobs to load teh tables, csv files in s3 bucket in to data lake environment. Developing SQL scripts to run on teh parquet form data for data extraction and master data preparation. Created teh Ingestion mechanism to automatically consume teh different type of raw csv files and processes it and store them in a data base with end to end automation. Developed ETL jobs for parsing teh raw files from teh Nessus security scanner both internal and external scans and load them in MySQL. Developed ETL job for parsing teh raw files from teh Tanium security scanner both internal and external scans and load them in MySQL. Developed ETL jobs by taking load tables as input source and extract required flags and store them in teh MySQL data base. Used Cron job for Job scheduling. Created Data visualization charts in teh Tableau feeding on teh database and bought it to live. Environment: Talend, AWS Glue, AWS Redshift, AWS S3, MS SQL server, AWS Athena, Voltage services, Hive, Pig, Spark, Windows. Confidential DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Setting up and building AWS infrastructure resources such as VPC, EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Elastic Search, Security Group, Auto Scaling, Lambda and RDS in Cloud Formation and involved in deploying teh content to Cloud platform on AWS using EC2, S3, and EBS. Hands on experience with IAM to set up user roles with corresponding user and group policies using JSON. Defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled teh traffic allowed reaching one or more AWS Ec2 instances. Used Docker, Kubernetes and OpenShift to manage micro services for development of continuous integration and continuous delivery. Support an Agile CI/CD Environment as a DevOps Engineer where we make teh Atlassian tools (Jira and Bitbucket) and also provide layer 3 supports on these tools if their are any issues. Worked on teh Deployment, Configuration, Monitoring and Maintenance of OpenShift Container Platform Implemented a Continuous delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins, GitHub and AWS AMI’s. Our Continuous Integration stack consists of GIT, Jenkins, CI/CD, teh Docker Trusted Registry and OpenShift Enterprise. Lead teh cloud infrastructure maintenance effort using a combination of Jenkins, Chef andTerraform for automating CICD pipeline in AWS. Responsible for a boarding application teams to build and deploy their code using GitHub, Jenkins and Ansible. Created new jobs in Jenkins and built pipeline for Continuous Integration and migrated applications to teh AWS cloud. Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool to automate repetitive task. Wrote Ansible Playbooks with Python SSH as a wrapper to manage configurations of AWS nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Environment: TFS, SVN, Chef, Puppet ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Azure, IIS, Shell scripts, Teamcity, PostgreSQL, JIRA, Service Desk, Splunk, Nagios, Windows, Linux/Unix. 