SUMMARY Overall Seven years of IT industry experience in Development, Systems Administration and Configuration Management and worked on various Cloud/IaaS platforms such as Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Extensive experience includes SCM, Build/Release Management, performing duties such as monitoring, automation, deployment, documenting, support and troubleshooting. Experience in release management of enterprise web applications using J2EE and Java related technologies. Well - versed in all phases of software development life cycle. Excellent understanding of SDLC Methodologies like Agile, Waterfall, RUP, RAD and other processes. Strong working experience in Perl Script, Shell Script, JIRA, Code Coverage, Ant, Maven, Build and Release management, Change Management, Process Engineering, Application Packaging and Web Programming. Understanding of Cloud Environment like AWS, Azure, PCF Pivotal Cloud Foundry. Experience in Migration & deployment of Applications with upgrade version of Application & Hardware, MS build, batch script and Jenkins Administrator. Work experience on Autoscaling, Cloudwatch (monitoring), AWS Elastic Beanstalk (app deployments), Amazon S3 (storage) and Amazon EBS (persistent disk storage). Experience in Cloud Computing technologies such as Amazon Web Services (AWS), and Microsoft Azure to maintain teh whole infrastructure and develop Terraform scripts to launch many instances in a single shot. Extensive experience in developing and maintaining build, deployment scripts for test, Staging and Production environments using ANT, Maven, Shell and Perl scripts. Strong knowledge on source controller concepts like Branches, Merges and Tags. Knowledge on Microsoft Azure for installation and configuration, created scripts on SOAP and PowerShell scripts to automate daily tasks on public cloud environments. Experience in using configuration management tools like Puppet/ Chef/AWS/Openstack. Experience in working with continuous integration using Jenkins, TeamCity and Hudson. Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, RDS, EBS, ELB, Auto-Scaling, AMI, IAM through AWS Console and API Integration with Puppet Code. Extensive experience using MAVEN and ANT as build tools for teh building of deployable artifacts (jar, war & ear) from source code. Experience withOpenStackComponents: Nova, Horizon, Neutron/Quantum, Cinder, Swift, Heat, Ceilometer, Sahara, Murano.OpenStackPlugins: KVM, OVS, VMWare ESXi, Cisco ACI, Juniper Contrail, NetApp, Zabbix, Neutron plugins (LBaaS, FWaaS, VPNaaS). Experience working with Puppet Enterprise and Puppet Open Source. Installed, configured, upgraded and managed Puppet Master, Agents & Databases. Integration of Puppet with Apache and Passenger. Exposure to teh automation on both Windows and Linux environments. Expertise in writing Bash Scripts, Pearl Scripts (hash and arrays), Python programming for deployment of Java applications on bare servers or Middleware tools. Good working experience on several prototype projects involving clustered container orchestration and management. Contributed a MySQL cluster application to teh Kubernetes project. Experience with container based deployments usingDocker, working withDockerimages, Docker hub and Docker registries. Expertise in teh Jenkins plugin management areas and implemented several CI / CD plugins like AWS EC2, build pipeline,Docker, GIT, JUnit and pipeline plugins. Experience in Managing/Tracking teh defects status by using JIRA, BugZilla, QC tools. Expertise with UNIX and Windows environments including shell and perl scripts, CVS, perforce, Clearcase, Visual SourceSafe, PVCS. Exposed to all aspects of software development life cycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Planning, Testing, and Implementing, Post-production analysis of teh projects. Skilled in supporting WebSphere, WebLogic, and JBoss application Server. Ability to build automated scripts and coordinate with teh software development team Comprehensive knowledge of software development life cycle. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming: Python, C/C++, Java, PHP, Shell Scripting, Ruby,XML. IaaS: AWS, Azure, OpenStack, PCF (Pivotal Cloud Foundry) Source Control/Versioning: CVS, Tortoise SVN, Clearcase, GIT, Perforce CI Tools: Puppet, Chef, Docker, Vagrant, Bamboo, Hudson, Jenkins, Ansible, Git, Github Build Tools: Jenkins, Maven, Nexus, Ant, Sonarqube, TeamCity Web Servers: Web logic, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, Nginx OS: Linux, Debian, Ubuntu, Red Hat 6.x, Kali, Suse, AIX, Mac OS X, Windows 10/8 Databases: Oracle 11g, MySQL, Postgres SQL, MongoDB Protocols/Services: LDAP, DNS, BIND, HTTP, HTTPS, POP3, NFS, NIS, TLS/SSL, DHCP, Kerberos, SAMBA. Cloud Technologies: AWS, Rackspace, VMware Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, Remedy, IBM ClearQuest Monitoring tools: Nagios, Splunk PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Edison, NJ DevOps/AWS Engineer Responsibilities: Day to day job included but not limited to handling Tickets, Monitoring, Troubleshooting and maintenance. Involved in DevOps migration/automation processes for build and deploy systems. Implemented teh Build automation process for all teh assigned projects. Monitored teh UAT/Production Environments for any down time issues by performing regular cron job updates in servers. Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all teh AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS CloudFormation. Maintained teh user accounts IAM Roles, VPC, RDB, Dynamo DB, SES, SQS and SNS services in AWS cloud. Used Ansible for configuration management of hosted instances within AWS. Configuring and Networking of Virtual Private Cloud. Used AWS services such as IAM, route 53, EC2, EBS, AMI, Auto scaling, VPC, Load balancer, RDS, VPC, ECS, Cloud watch, Cloud formation, SNS, etc. Used AWS services to launch many instances at a time with teh halp of terraform scripts. Evolved new tools/methodologies to improve dis existing process and show better results to all stakeholders. Written Maven scripts, Installed Jenkins, written shell script for end to end build and deployment automation. Setup various Team Projects into different Team Project Collections in TFS 2013. Supported teh code builds by integrating with continuous integration tool (Jenkins). Extensively worked on Jenkins/Hudson by installing, configuring and maintaining for teh purpose of continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Built Continuous Integration environment, Continuous delivery environment and Integrated delivery (CI and CD process) Using Jenkins, Nexus, Yum and puppet. Deployed Puppet, Puppet dashboard for configuration management to existing infrastructure. Configured and maintained codebase to support teh build and deployment of code on servers. Implemented rapid-provisioning and life-cycle management for Red Hat Linux using Puppet. Wrote puppet manifests for deploying, configuring, and managing collected for metric collection and monitoring. Handled large volumes of container clusters with Docker swarm, kubernetes. Developed Puppet modules to automate deployment, configuration, and lifecycle management of key clusters. Performed merging and tagging need to be done after teh code went live in environment. Maintain a Live Like environment to test any production issues on teh setup and push it into production. Worked on variousDockercomponents likeDockerEngine, Hub, Machine, Compose and Docker Registry. Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability Worked on high-volume crash collecting and reporting system, built with Python. Configuration Management using GIT and maintaining admin related files. Automating teh regular tasks in Subversion and streamlining teh process of access to GIT. Provided end-user training for all GitHub users to TEMPeffectively use teh tool. Developed unit and functional tests in Python and Java. Used GIT version control to manage teh source code and integrating GIT with Jenkins to support build automation. Migrated Projects from SVN to GIT. Maintained QA environment and solved issue of QA and maintain DB version according releases. Also published code and DB on production and staging as per business requirement. Created extensive documentation, including straightforward how-to procedures for common administrative tasks. Environment: Java/J2EE, Subversion, Docker, JIRA, TFS, TeamCity, Kubernetes, AWS, Maven, Docker, GIT, Puppet, Python, Remedy, Shell Scripting, GIT, UNIX/Linux. Confidential, Tampa, FL DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Build & Release Engineer for a team that involved different development teams and multiple simultaneous software releases. Developed and implemented Software Release Management strategies for various applications according to teh agile process. Used chef to automate Configuration management. Used chef to manage Web Applications,ConfigFiles, Data Base, Commands, UsersMount Points and Packages. Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into GIT. Involved in all projects that move to production and work closely with teh Data Center, Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes. Implemented multi-tier application provisioning in OpenStack cloud, integrating it with Chef. Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis. Install and setup OpenStack cloud infrastructure utilizing cent OS, ESXi and windows server 2012, virtualization. Written make, Maven build tools for application layer modules. Build,test and deployed highly availableopenstackprivate cloud environments. Managedopenstackinfrastructure upgrades,expansions,scaling and debugging for 2 tickets per day on most challenging environments Built and Deployed Java/J2EE to a web application server in an Agile continuous integration environment and also automated teh whole process. Implemented automated local user provisioning in instances created inOpenStackcloud through Ansible Play books. Created and maintained teh Shell/Perl deployment scripts for TC Server/Tomcat web application servers. Created and managed Cinder volumes inOpenStackCloud. Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and mitigate potential risks associated with teh releases. Manage, configure and maintain Ec2 instances, ELB, RDS, ElasticCache, SNS etc. Automated server/database backups using (snapshots/AMI images). Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. Developed Perl and shell scripts for automation of teh build and release process. Involved in editing teh existing MAVEN files in case of errors or changes in teh project requirements. Performed periodic system audits on all environments to ensure that only controlled versions of software reside all environments. Responsible for teh development and maintenance of processes and associated scripts/tools for automated build, testing and deployment of teh products to various developments. Managed Maven project dependencies by creating parent-child relationships between projects. Installed/Configured/Managed Jenkins CI Automation. Responsible for teh Plugin Management, User Management, Build/Deploy Pipeline Setup and End-End Job Setup of all teh projects. Jenkins is used as a continuous integration tool for automation of daily process. Created teh Release process of teh artifacts. JIRA is used as ticket tracking, change management and Agile/SCRUM tool. Environment: Java/J2EE, Chef, GIT, Jenkins, MAVEN, Openstack, Perl Scripts, Shell Scripts, XML, Oracle, JIRA, UNIX, Windows 7. Confidential DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Worked portal for triggering builds and releasing them to stakeholders by understanding teh pain points of Developers and QA engineers. Maintained teh FTP server in which teh builds were copied. Designed teh Infrastructure, and implemented on AWS cloud. Setup AWS VPC’s for dev, staging and Prod environments. Vulnerability Assessment & Penetration Testing on teh infrastructure on AWS for security. Responsible for using AWS console for deploying and operating AWS services specifically VPC, EC2, S3, EBS, IAM, ELB and CloudFormation. Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all teh AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS CloudFormation. Maintained teh user accounts IAM Roles, VPC, RDB, Dynamo DB, SES, SQS and SNS services in AWS cloud. Implemented Chef to deploy teh builds for Dev, QA and production. Integrated Jenkins with Github for continuous integration and deployment of teh code by enabling Git hooks, teh build jobs is automatically created once teh changes are made to teh code by dev team. Created Multi branch pipeline and shared pipeline libraries that can be used by others jobs, created Artifacts and Fingerprints of teh build jobs. Expert in Docker with strong experience in multi-stage builds in Dev/Test/Prod using docker-compose and docker-stack deploy. Knowledge in docker swarm orchestration, networking, security, storage and volumes. Maintained and developed infrastructure using Chef, Jenkins, and multiple AWS tools. Created release notes based on teh contents of builds and publish build artifacts to teh stakeholders. Continuous Integration: implemented and promoted use of Jenkins within teh developer community. Validated Jenkins along with Bamboo. Developed scripts for executing validation/test cases automatically after builds. Developed and maintained in-house Code review system before migrating to teh lightweight code review system available in Stash. Designed and implemented teh backup strategy for all teh critical systems such as build machines, bug tracking tools, central repositories etc. Environment: Java, AWS, Eclipse, Tomcat, Apache, Chef, Oracle 11g, Jenkins, Python, Ruby JIRA, Maven, Git, Windows, Ruby, Chef, Windows. Confidential DevOps/Bulid and Release Engineer Responsibilities: Worked as a Build/Release/Deployment/Operations (DevOps) Engineer with good understanding of teh TEMPprincipals. Performed all necessary day-to-day Subversion/GIT support for different projects and Responsible for design and maintenance of teh Subversion/GIT Repositories, views, and teh access control strategies. Create and Maintain nightly builds, hot-fix builds/branches, custom and private builds. Handled Jira tickets for SCM support activities. Regular Build jobs are initiated using teh CI (Continuous Integration) tool with Jenkins. Responsible for distributed applications across hybrid AWS and physical data centers. Used AWS services such as IAM, route 53, EC2, EBS, AMI, Auto scaling, VPC, Load balancer, RDS, VPC, ECS, Cloud watch, Cloud formation, SNS, etc. Used AWS services to launch many instances at a time with teh halp of terraform scripts. Storage on AWS EBS, S3 and Glacier and automate sync data to Glacier. Databases services on AWS like RDS, Dynamo DB, Cloud front, Elastic Beanstalk. Responsible for taking teh source code and compiling using Maven and package it in its distributable format such as JAR, WAR and EAR and deploying them in teh WebSphere application server. Perform deployments to multiple environments in Testing, staging and production environments and configure jobs for generating project artifacts. Experience in Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) and Test Driven Development (TDD) Monitoring of applications, servers, doing capacity planning with teh halp of Nagios for managing logs to notify teh incident management system upon reaching or exceeding teh threshold limits Creating, Utilizing, Managing Policies and Glacier storage in S3 buckets on AWS. Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) groups and users for improved login authentication. Created EBS snapshots, rebuilt new EBS volumes from snapshots to migrate applications, and storing these snapshots into S3 buckets for backup. Coordinate release activities with Project Management, QA, Release Management and Web Development teams to ensure a smooth and trouble-free roll out of releases. Environment: Linux, Windows, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Maven, AWS EC2, AWS S3, AWS Glacier, AWS IAM, WebSphere, Artifact, Nagios, IAM Confidential Software Engineer (Release/ Build) Responsibilities: Responsible for design and maintenance of teh Subversion Repositories, views, and teh access control strategies. Performed all necessary day-to-day GIT support for different projects. Analyze and resolve compilation and deployment errors related to code development, branching, merging and building of source code. Develop and enhance teh automated configuration management system. Maintain and enhance current build procedures for all software development projects. Branching and merging of teh code base in Git. Used Maven to perform daily and weekly Software Builds. Resolving merging issues during build and release by conducting meetings with developers and managers. Responsible for designing and deploying best SCM practices and procedures. Deploying Java Enterprise applications to Apache Web Server. Worked with Oracle Database Admin to keep all teh specified tables as assigned by developments in sync for every release Posting teh build on time & following it up teh testing team on posted builds until teh specified release goes LIVE Environment: Java/J2ee, Maven, Git, Jenkins, Linux, Shell Scripts, Apache Web Server. 