SUMMARY 12 years of experience in software development with experience in Application, System and Embedded software design/development using Python, C and C++ on Linux and Unix platforms. Thorough experience in software development life cycle. Worked on user space system programming on Linux, AIX. Proficient in Python, C and C++ programming. Involved in Development of HP - UX cloud solution using Openstack. Used various IPC mechanisms like signals, pipes, shared memory and socket Programming. Knowledge of advanced level programming including thread synchronization,Multithreading, multi-processing, concurrency. Knowledge of cloud computing and virtualization including KVM and HPVM. Wrote a plugin driver in python TEMPthan runs as part of nova component of Open stack. Experience with Shell Scripting(bash). Knowledge of PowerPC processor and assembly language. Knowledge of Linux internals. Knowledge of REST APIs Knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3 and VPC. Experience in configuration management tools me.e. writing Ansible playbooks. Good Knowledge Objected Oriented Concepts, Standard Template Library and Data Structures. Worked with various version control systems such as git, svn, clearcase. Knowledge of RDBMS concepts and experience with writing SQL queries. Good Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities Worked with debugging tools like pdb, gdb, dbx and profiling tools like tprof. Knowledge of Waterfall and Agile Methodologies. Experience with Continuous Integration(CI)/Deployment(CD) tools like CruiseControl, Ansible, Knowledge of Jenkins. Experienced in writing High Level and Low level design documents for feature development. Experienced in maintaining technical documentation for projects. Experienced with leading junior colleagues and mentoring new joiners. Good analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player, strong interpersonal communication skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: C, C++, Python 2.7, Bash, shell scripting, Java. Cloud Frameworks: Openstack, Helion. Debugging Tools: Gdb, dbx, Python Debugger. Processors: PowerPC, x86 Profiling tools: tprof, gprof, Valgrind Databases: Oracle, MySQL. Version Control Systems: Clearcase, Subversion, GIT, github. CI/CD tools: CruiseControl, Jenkins Deployment / IDE tools: Ansible, PyCharm. Visual Studio Operating Systems: Linux - Ubuntu and RHEL, AIX, HP-UX, Windows, LynxOS(RTOS). Virtualization Platforms: KVM, HPVM, Dockers. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Atlanta, Georgia Python and C Developer Responsibilities: Develop and Enhance teh infrastructure of teh product/tool to add capabilities for fault injection. Develop teh component responsible for doing fault injection and monitoring teh TEMPeffect of teh faults. Explore fault injection tools written in different languages like C,C++ and suggest integration of tools. Add multi user capabilities to Flask web framework being used. Handle performance issues and improve performance of teh application. Mentoring junior team members. Do code reviews for existing and new code and suggest improvements wherever possible. Bug fixing and maintenance of teh application. Environment: - Python, C, Linux, Flask, Openstack. Confidential, Alpharetta, GA Senior Python Developer Responsibilities: Developing driver in python that runs as part of nova-compute service and interacts with HPVM hypervisor for creating/managing virtual machines. Developing python based library that is used by teh driver to interact with HPVM hypervisor. Baselining code with different openstack releases and testing compatibility. Identifying distribution and packaging mechanism for teh python package of teh solution. Setup up devstack or Helion Openstack for development environment. Demonstrate teh solution to different prospective clients. Document teh setup and steps to install/use teh solution. Leading and mentoring junior colleagues in teh team. Bug fixing various issues discovered in testing. Environment: Python, Linux, Openstack, GIT. Confidential Senior Python and Ansible Developer Responsibilities: Writing ansible playbooks to deploy and integrate teh HP-UX Cloud solution with Helion Openstack. Teh ansible playbooks would be used to bind teh solution with HOS framework and give users ansible playbooks to run for deploying HP-UX cloud. Integrating and testing teh solution with Helion Openstack framework. Identifying changes required to HOS framework for adding a new hypervisor support. Setup and bring up of Helion Openstack with teh required configuration/services. Document teh setup and steps to install/use teh solution. Bug fixing various issues discovered in testing. Environment: Ansible, Python, Linux, Openstack, GIT. Confidential C, C++ Developer Responsibilities: Worked as part of Unikix product development team. Developing a new abstraction layer/APIs that provides platform independence. Doing a proof of concept and finalizing teh design for teh project. Changing application code to use new APIs instead of direct socket calls. Bug fixing for various other product issues that are raised by end users/clients. Environment: C, C++, Linux, Python, SUA/Windows. Confidential C/C++ and Python Developer Responsibilities: Rewrote cache coherency exerciser on a new framework Adding thread synchronization logic for multiple threads to run together and one at a time. Adding new instructions support in exerciser for newer generations of processor. Owning teh component in terms of design, development and maintenance. Port changes to simulator environment in Python. Designing and developing features in dis module. Providing support for defects and other issues to teams who use teh module. Unit testing teh feature. Environment: C, C++, Python, Linux, AIX. Confidential C Developer Responsibilities: Component ownership in terms of design, development and maintenance. Enabled module to support 8 threads to run on smt 8(simultaneous multi threading). Add support for new instructions added for next gen processor. Develop code for features to support new processor specific stress scenarios. Unit testing new features. Providing support for defects and other issues to teams who use teh module Environment: C, Linux, AIX. Confidential C Developer Responsibilities: Gain code and setup knowledge on almost all modules of teh tool. Provide analysis and resolution for teh defects. Unblock teh testing teams from various issues with their setup. Interacting with testers, other team members and coordinating teh bug resolution. Environment: Linux, AIX. Confidential C and C++ Firmware Developer Responsibilities: Implemented feature Bow and tilt for improving image quality on teh above mentioned product. Worked on driver and Application modules that work together to control teh data and image printing process. Worked on embedded application development for Multi-Function and Single Function Laser Jet Printers. Fixed defects related to teh Video area that controls image and data printing. Implemented teh feature on Linux codebase. Porting teh feature to Windows codebase. Environment: Linux, LynxOS. Confidential C and C++ Firmware Developer Responsibilities: Analyzed requirement and wrote design documents for teh feature. Designed and Implement changes for reporting tray overfilled condition and excluding teh tray from media source selection to avoid paper jams. Fixed defects for teh product and coordinated with other partners. Mentored and trained new and subordinate engineers. Environment: Linux, LynxOS, Simulator, Emulator. Confidential C and C++ Firmware Developer Responsibilities: Analyzed requirement and wrote design document for teh feature. Worked on similar feature in paper handling area which deals with selection of source and destination of printing media and posting of messages to user for various conditions such as paper out or mismatch. Implementing teh code changes for teh feature. Fixed defects related to teh feature and other areas. Environment: C, C++, Linux, Simulator and Emulator. Confidential C++ Developer Responsibilities: Analyzing teh changes required for adding new features/enhancements to teh module. Implementing code changes for teh enhancement. Designed and Implemented views for limit types addition and modification which was earlier done directly to db. Fixed defects related to enhancement found during internal testing and during support phase. Environment: C++, Unix, Oracle Database. Confidential C++ Developer Responsibilities: Analyze teh changes required for teh enhancement. Implementing teh code changes for teh enhancement. Unit testing teh enhancement and fixing defects related to teh enhancement. Providing support of teh module for customer issues and change requests. Environment: C++, Unix. 