SUMMARY AWS/DEVOPS Engineer wif 7+ years of professional IT experience in Dev Ops/Agile operations, AWS Cloud Management,, SDLC, Unix/Linux Administration, Build and Release Management. Highly experienced in managing server infrastructure and administration of Mission Critical, highly available environments. Expertise in teh areas of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) methodologies, Change Management, Disaster Recovery, Failure Management, Incident and Issue Tracking, Cost Optimization, Log Monitoring and Cloud Implementation. Hands - on experience in teh leading Cloud technologies namely AWS. Good experience in Unix/Linux system administration, Server Builds, System builds, Installations, Upgrades, Migrations and Troubleshooting on REDHAT Linux, CentOS, Ubuntu, Windows, Fedora. Adept at architecting and deploying fault tolerant, highly available, cost effective and secure servers in AWS. Extensive experience in setting up teh Enterprise infrastructure on AWS cloud, which includes utilization of Virtual Private Cloud (VPC),Elastic Cloud Computing (EC2), Elastic Load Balancer (ELB), Elastic Block Store (EBS), Simple Storage Service(S3), Simple Notification Service (SNS), Simple Queue Service (SQS), Security Groups, Auto Scaling, Relational Database System (RDS), Elastic IP’s, IAM and Cloud Formation services using AWS-Command Line Interface(CLI) and also enabling teh enterprise environment compatible for Continuous Monitoring using Cloud Watch. Used Docker for virtualization, containerizing, and deploying teh applications securely to fasten teh Build and Release Engineering, performed automation tasks using Docker Hub, Docker Engine, Docker Machine, Docker Compose and Docker Registry. Extensively worked on Jenkins/Hudson & Bamboo by installing, configuring, troubleshooting and maintaining for teh purpose of Continuous Integration (CI) and for End-End automation of all builds and deployments. Architected and automated cloud infrastructure using Chef, Puppet and Ansible on multiple Cloud Servers. Expertise in Installation and configuration of automated tool Puppet which includes Puppet Master, Agent Nodes and an administration control workstation, theirby setting an automated platform. Expertise in setting up Chef Infra, Bootstrapping Nodes, creating and uploading Recipes, Node convergence in Chef SCM and worked wif data bags, attributes, cookbooks, recipes and templates in Chef. Hands-on experience in provisioning AWS resources like VPC, EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, RDS using Cloud formation JSON templates Highly experienced in Automating, Configuring and deploying instances on AWS ‘Design-for-Failure’ approaches. Extensively involved inAdministration, Configuration Management, Continuous Integration, Continuous Deployment, Build & Release Management, Cloud Infrastructure provisioning, Monitoring, and Automation using Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Docker, Nagios, SVN, GIT, Tomcat, Splunk. Experienced in Provisioning of IAAS & PAAS Virtual Machines and Web\Worker roles on Microsoft Azure Classic and Resource Manager and troubleshooting issues on Azure VMs. Hands on experience wif Microsoft Azure Cloud services, Storage Accounts and Virtual Networks. Expertise in deploying teh builds through web application servers like Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere and Web logic. Excellent noledge in writing Bash, Ruby, Python and PowerShell scripts to automate teh deployments. Experienced in log monitoring tools namely Splunk and Nagios. Adept at using Version Control tools like Subversion and GIT on multiple environments to track changes made by different departments in source code and held extensive migration of Centralized to Distributed VCS (Git). Experience in using MAVEN and ANT as build tools for building of Deployable Artifacts (jar, war & ear) from source code. Experienced in Bug Tracking tools like JIRA. Expertise in Deployment tools like XL Deploy and Code Deploy. Extensively worked Wif VMware ESXi 5.1/5.5/6.0, vCenter Server, Host Clustering wif HA, DRS, Replication Manager 5.x/6.0, Site Recovery Manager, vMotion. Cognitively expert in enterprise architecture components LDAP and Windows Active Directory. Installed and maintained teh machines wif teh updated Patches and necessary client software packages by using pkg*, RPM*, YUM*, sw*, etc... Knowledge of using Routed Protocols like FTP, SFTP, SSH, HTTP, HTTPS and Direct connect. Excellent understanding of Network topologies such as LAN, WAN, VPN and Firewalls. Configuring and maintaining network services such as LDAP, DNS, NIS, DHCP, NFS, Web, mail, FTP. Expertise in UNIX, RHEL 7/6.x/5.x, Centos 6.x/5.x, Solaris 9/10 and Windows Expertise in troubleshooting at System level, Application level, Network level sues generated while building, deploying and in production support. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: RHEL/Cent OS 5.x/6.x/7, Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 Cloud Technologies: Azure,AWS, Docker Databases: My SQL, SQL Server, ORACLE, Mongo DB, Cassandra Monitoring Tools: Cloud Watch, Nagios, Splunk, ELK Automation and Build Tools: ANT, MAVEN, Jenkins Configuration Management Tools: Chef, Puppet, Ansible Virtualization Tools: VMware, Oracle Virtual box Version Control Tools: GIT, TFS,Tortoise SVN Scripting: Bash, power Shell, Python, Ruby, Perl programming, Java, JavaScript, HTML Networking Infrastructure: TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, LDAP, ADDS, SAN. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Reston, VA DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: As a Dev Ops & Cloud Engineer, worked in AWS environment, instrumental in utilizing Compute Services (EC2, ELB), Storage Services (S3, Glacier, Block Storage, Lifecycle Management policies), Cloud Formation(JSON Templates), Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, VPC, RDS, Trusted Advisor and Cloud Watch. Managed EC2 instances utilizing Launch Configuration, Auto scaling, Elastic Load balancing, automated teh process of provisioning infrastructure using Cloud Formation templates,Terraform and used Cloud Watch to create alarms and monitor environments. Automated builds using TFS team build and cruisecontrol.net build for .net applications. Setting up CI CD pipelines on VSTS for .net core microservices and xamarin based Andriod and IOS mobile applications. Deploying teh Xamarin based mobile applications to Google Play Store, Apple Store and Hockey App. Automating XTC tests on Microsoft App Centre. Monitoring teh applications on kubernetes by using Grafana. Crash and Performance monitoring using Raygun portal. Automated slack to notify production alerts for CPU spikes and Memory usage spikes. Provide strategic guidance and direction in teh use of tools, including open source offerings, for Continuous Integration and Delivery. Provisioning teh environments for Kubernetes deployments. Scale up and scale down teh pods in Kubernetes by using Kubectl command line. Created Docker Image, configure Docker file, ignore file, deployed instances onto Kubernetes. Container Orchestration wif operating multiple pods. Designed and implemented ASP.NET Core 2.x micro services utilizing docker for container virtualization and Kubernetes for container orchestration. Experienced in Provisioning of IAAS & PAAS Virtual Machines and Web\Worker roles on Microsoft Azure Classic and Resource Manager and troubleshooting issues on Azure VMs. Reduced costs by ~$3,000 each month by eliminating unnecessary servers and consolidating databases Implemented Git for version control of puppet modules and process documentation. Hands on experience wif Microsoft Azure Cloud services, Storage Accounts and Virtual Networks. Built and deployed Docker containers to break up monolithic app into micro services, improving developer workflow, increasing scalability, and optimizing speed. Deploying teh Microservices in Kubernetes by using Azure Container Services. Used noledge of .NET to Implement and maintained branching and build/release strategies for .NET applications utilizing TFS. Co-ordinated wif offshore team in completing delivery and halping them out in TFS related issues. Designed & implemented VPC service for extension of on-premises datacenter wif AWS Cloud using VPN & Direct connects services. Build and configure a virtual data center in teh Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse hosting including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups, Route Tables, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto Scaling Groups. Migrating present Linux environment to AWS by creating and executing a migration plan, deployed EC2 instances in VPC, configured security groups & NACL’s, attached profiles and roles using AWS Cloud Formation templates and Ansible modules. Scripting infrastructure and (Linux) machine provisioning using bash and teh Python AWS-SDK. Used Amazon Route53 to manage DNS zones globally as well as to give public DNS names to ELB’s and Cloud front for Content Delivery. Used IAM to assign roles, to create and manage AWS users, groups, and permissions to use AWS resources.. Created Master-Slave configuration using existing Linux machines and EC2 instances to implement multiple parallel builds through a build farm, expertise in troubleshooting build and release job failures Deploying and maintaining production environment using AWS EC2 instances and Elastic Container Services wif Docker. Managed local deployments in Kubernetes, creating local cluster and deploying application containers. Installing Docker using Docker tool box and installing and configuring Kubernetes. Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up teh automated build on Docker HUB. Installed and configured Nexus repository manager for sharing artifacts between internal teams and created proxy Nexus repositories to speed up teh build process. Responsible for CI and CD using Jenkins, Maven and Ansible. Used Ticketing tool JIRA to track defects and changes for change management, monitoring tools like NewRelic and CloudWatch in different work environments in real and container workspace. Managed Ansible Playbooks wif Ansible modules, implemented CD automation using Ansible, managing existing servers and automation of build/configuration of new servers. Worked wif Ansible for Orchestration of Deployments for various servers. Created customized modules, using existing modules in Ansible that can control Package System Resources. Writing ansible playbooks, replacing teh dependency on Chef Cookbooks and Chef Recipes to automate infrastructure as a code. rchestrating environment deployment from OS all teh way through teh application layers of a solution, using tools such as Docker Created Maven scripts to create multiple deployment profiles and deploy teh applications to Apache Tomcat. Ensured System Uptime by monitoring production systems and responding to issues wif corrective action. Designed and Developed automation test scripts using Python. Build and Release software baselines, code merges, branch and label creation in Subversion and GIT, worked on migration from Subversion to Git (DVCS). Expertise in Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins Continuous Integration tool on Linux machines along wif adding/updating plugins such as GIT, ANT, Ansible, EC2, Sonar, Checkstyle, Deploy to Container, Build Pipeline etc. Provided on-call support for production issues. Confidential, VA DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: As a Dev Ops & Cloud Engineer, worked in AWS environment, instrumental in utilizing Compute Services (EC2, ELB), Storage Services (S3, Glacier, Block Storage, Lifecycle Management policies), Cloud Formation(JSON Templates), Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, VPC, RDS, Trusted Advisor and Cloud Watch. Managed EC2 instances utilizing Launch Configuration, Auto scaling, Elastic Load balancing, automated teh process of provisioning infrastructure using Cloud Formation templates, and used Cloud Watch to create alarms and monitor environments. Automated builds using TFS team build and cruisecontrol.net build for .net applications. Provide strategic guidance and direction in teh use of tools, including open source offerings, for Continuous Integration and Delivery. Experienced in Provisioning of IAAS & PAAS Virtual Machines and Web\Worker roles on Microsoft Azure Classic and Resource Manager and troubleshooting issues on Azure VMs. Implemented Git for version control of puppet modules and process documentation. Hands on experience wif Microsoft Azure Cloud services, Storage Accounts and Virtual Networks. Used noledge of .NET to Implement and maintained branching and build/release strategies for .NET applications utilizing TFS. Co-ordinated wif offshore team in completing delivery and halping them out in TFS related issues Designed & implemented VPC service for extension of on-premises datacenter wif AWS Cloud using VPN & Direct connects services. Migrating present Linux environment to AWS by creating and executing a migration plan, deployed EC2 instances in VPC, configured security groups & NACL’s, attached profiles and roles using AWS Cloud Formation templates and Ansible modules. Scripting infrastructure and (Linux) machine provisioning using bash and teh PythonAWS-SDK. Used Amazon Route53 to manage DNS zones globally as well as to give public DNS names to ELB’s and Cloud front for Content Delivery. Used IAM to assign roles, to create and manage AWS users, groups, and permissions to use AWS resources.. Created Master-Slave configuration using existing Linux machines and EC2 instances to implement multiple parallel builds through a build farm, expertise in troubleshooting build and release job failures Deploying and maintaining production environment using AWS EC2 instances and Elastic Container Services wif Docker. Managed local deployments in Kubernetes, creating local cluster and deploying application containers. Installing Docker using Docker tool box and installing and configuring Kubernetes. Container management using Docker by writing Dockerfiles and set up teh automated build on Docker HUB. Installed and configured Nexus repository manager for sharing artifacts between internal teams and created proxy Nexus repositories to speed up teh build process. Responsible for CI and CD using Jenkins, Maven and Ansible. Used Ticketing tool JIRA to track defects and changes for change management, monitoring tools like NewRelic and CloudWatch in different work environments in real and container workspace. Managed Ansible Playbooks wif Ansible modules, implemented CD automation using Ansible, managing existing servers and automation of build/configuration of new servers. Worked wif Ansible for Orchestration of Deployments for various servers. Created customized modules, using existing modules in Ansible that can control Package System Resources. Writing ansible playbooks, replacing teh dependency on Chef Cookbooks and Chef Recipes to automate infrastructure as a code. Created Maven scripts to create multiple deployment profiles and deploy teh applications to Apache Tomcat. Ensured System Uptime by monitoring production systems and responding to issues wif corrective action. Designed and Developed automation test scripts using Python. Build and Release software baselines, code merges, branch and label creation in Subversion and GIT, worked on migration from Subversion to Git (DVCS). Expertise in Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins Continuous Integration tool on Linux machines along wif adding/updating plugins such as GIT, ANT, Ansible, EC2, Sonar, Checkstyle, Deploy to Container, Build Pipeline etc. Provided on-call support for production issues. Environment: Azure,AWS, Ansible, Jenkins,TFS, Maven, JIRA, Linux, Docker, Kubernetes, NewRelic, Power Shell, Bash, Python, Chef. Confidential Devops Engineer Responsibilities: Migrated all teh source code from subversion to GIT. Supporting engineering plans and schedules by providing CM/Release Engineering services to build, deploy, develop scripts, oversee branch and merge strategies, and build automated tools as necessary to offer services to engineering team. Configuring Jenkins for developers to bounce teh application container, to get teh application, container, and access logs by using ANT scripts. Used teh continuous integration tool Hudson to automate teh daily processes. Migrating J2EE applications to UNIX and Windows environments by configuring application via IDE EclipseSubversion, and Jenkins. Integrated automated build in Jenkins. Update Maven scripts to use Artifactory repo instead of local repositories. Managing GIT version control system in creating branches, tags, merge, resolving conflicts. Created Shell scripts using Python and PHP for test automation.Working closely wif Web Administrators to understand, participate, and experience teh technical architect for web sites such as Apache, Jboss, Web Logic and deploying J2EE Applications to these environments. Driven forces for implementing Jira and Confluence for ticket and issue tracking, Chef to aid wif our deployment process, and migrating in - house systems to Virtual servers and cloud services. For applications that are developed in a regular pace, builds and deployments were as per request. Develop and maintain ANT (build.xml) and Maven (pom.xml) scripts. Automated teh weekly deployments utilizing CI tool Jenkins. Upgraded and Migrated to Jira from Clear Quest for bug tracking and project tracking. JIRA: Administrated, maintained documentation and provided training to teh users Created Web Hooks which triggers builds in Jenkins for teh legacy products. Developed & improved build communication, documenting build processes & procedures. Deploy production packages to web servers and application servers according to business needs. Environment: Subversion, Hudson/Jenkins, Ant, Maven, GIT, Chef, Accurev, Apache Tomcat, Web sphere, Java, Spring MVC, JSF, Struts, Python, PHP. Confidential Build/Release Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in identifying build errors in teh system and identify teh build issue and escalate it to teh concerned team after careful analysis. Work and coordinate wif them to get teh fix in teh release. Installation and configuration of Red HatLinux, Solaris, Debian, Ubuntu, Fedora and CentOS on new server builds as well as during teh upgrade situations. Adding packages in Linux using rpm, yum, apt-get, etc. Worked on Continuous Integration System i.e. Jenkins. Used Jenkins for official nightly build, test and managing change list. Installed Multiple Plugins for smooth build and release build pipelines. Migrated out core repository from SUBVERSION to GIT. In this process I was involved in individually migrate all teh code base from subversion to git ensuring that health of our builds aren't effected. Performed high level merges of branches, code bases. Maintained Maven/Ant and streamlined teh entire build system. And managed build and release infrastructure, optimized build scripts and introduced a better way of releasing RPMs wif effective tracking. Maintained build related scripts developed in ANT, Python and shell. Involved in administrating git server and continuous Integration system like Jenkins and handled escalations from developers across teh globe. Involved in deploying teh content cloud platform on Amazon AWS using EC2, S3, and EBS. Modified ANT scripts to build teh JAR’s, Class files, WAR files and EAR files from VOB’s for Java applications and MS builds for all .Net applications. Enhanced Maven pom.xml wif additional plugins for robust builds. Building & configuring Red hat Linux systems over teh network, implementing automated tasks through crontab, resolving tickets according to teh priority basis. Create and maintain nightly builds, hotfix builds/branches, custom and private builds. Used noledge of .NET to Implement and maintained branching and build/release strategies for .NET applications utilizing TFS. Co-ordinated wif offshore team in completing delivery and halping them out in TFS related issues By using JIRA/CONFLUENCE we maintain our product release wikis on confluence. And administer JIRA and manage tickets raised by keeping a close eye. Designed, developed, enhanced and maintained Web based UI for monitoring purposes and scripted reporting tools (in PHP & BASH) for verifying teh build logs for frequently observed build and test issues. Key member of teh build team that works on how to reduce build time. We used cache to reduce compilation time and redundancies. Active participant in software configuration and change management processes to improve build accuracy, time, version controlling, and migration of code onto different build environments. Performed periodic customer releases through git pushes to shared, private and public servers. We use cron tabs, automated scripts to do continuous delivery and continuous deployment. Environment: Git, Jenkins, Maven, Jira, Bash, Sonar, ANT, AWS, Apache Tomcat, Shell and python 