SUMMARY An outstanding, self - motivated professional wif over 10+ years of experience in IT industry wif major focus on Software Configuration, Build/Release Management and DevOps engineering. Expertise in administering and supporting the source control tools like GIT, Subversion (SVN) and CVS. Experience in and demonstrated understanding of source control management concepts such as branching, merging, labeling. Experience in building and deploying J2EE applications and troubleshooting the build and deploy failures. Installed and configured the complete QA/Production environment setup for the B2B/B2C system for multiple implementation projects. Install and configuration of all components on the SAP Hybris platform (Hybris, Datahub, Solr). Extensive experience in using Build Automation DevOps tools like, Jenkins, Jfrog Artifactory/Nexus, ANT, Maven and Bamboo, Team City. Worked on Installation, configuration and administration of web application servers like Apache Tomcat, Jboss. Experience in maintaining and executing build scripts to automate non-production and production builds. Managed environments DEV, SIT, QA, UAT and PROD for various releases and designed instance strategies. Implemented Docker Container manifest to deploy the applications in Apcera platform. Experience wif container-based deployments using Docker, working wif Docker images, Docker Hub, Docker registries. Expertise in setting up Kubernetes clusters on AWS for non-production environments using Kops. Hands on Experience on Active MQ, Mulesoft (Cloud and on premise) middleware. Worked on integration of various third party applications Vertex, Litle, Paymetric, OKTA, Salesforce, 3PL applications. Extensively worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Experienced in Splunk installation and configuration for the log analysis. Implemented New Relic Monitoring for both Infra & APM agents Experience wif WebSphere and Tomcat installation, configuration, and deployment and also automating the process using any scripting language. Developing Ant and Maven scripts to automate the compilation, deployment and testing of Web and J2EE applications to the above platforms Coordinated different teams across the globe to deploy different builds to different environments on parallel development for multiple projects. Good analytical, problem solving, communication skills and have the ability to work either independently wif little or no supervision or as a member of a team. TECHNICAL SKILLS Cloud Computing:  Amazon Web Services, EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, Elastic Load balancer (ELB), S3, Glacier, VPC, Route53 Operating Systems:  Redhat Linux, Cent OS, Unix, Windows, Solaris Scripting:  YAML, Bash Shell scripting Language:  Java, J2EE Build tool:  Maven, AntSource Control tool:  Subversion ( SVN ), CVS, GIT Automated DevOps tools:  Jenkins, Atlassian Bamboo, Ansible, TeamCity Databases:  Redis SQL Server, My SQL, Oracle12C Application Server:  Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, WebLogic Server, Microsoft IIS Issue tracking Tools:  ATLASSIAN JIRA, Service Now, Bugzilla Middleware:  Mulesoft Monitoring Tools:  NewRelic, Splunk PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, San Ramon, CA Senior DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Installed/Configured/Managed Jenkins CI Automation. Configured Jenkins pipeline using Jenkins file groovy scripts. Configured the maven and integrated wif Jenkins. Interacted wif client teams to understand client deployment requests. Coordinate wif the Development, Database Administration, QA, and IT Operations teams to ensure their are no resource conflicts. Experienced in build/deployments and administrating in Hybris Ecommerce platform. Wrote the ansible playbooks which is the entry point for Ansible provisioning, where the automation is defined through tasks using YAML format for Jenkins deployment jobs. Implemented Docker Container manifests to deploy the applications in AWS. Installed and configured the Splunk for log analysis. Installed and configured the New Relic Monitoring system (Infra/APM) Installed/Configured/Managed Jenkins CI Automation Configured all the dependencies in Jfrog Artifactory and halps developers to sort out the maven related build issues. Configured mule soft application wif maven builds Installed and configured the dev/QA and Production environment setup for the B2B/B2C system for AU, CA and US implementations. Installed and configured the Hybris, Datahub, Solr, Mulesoft and Vertex. Integrated Hybris wif various third party applications Vertex, Litle, Paymetric, OKTA, Salesforce, 3PL applications Configured wrapper jobs for the Hybris ecommerce application deployment on Linux. Configured Jenkins pipeline using Jenkins groovy scripts. Ansible tower configured for all the environment deployment automation. Configured Splunk in all the servers for log analysis. Configured new relic app agent and infra agent in Production and non-production servers. Worked on creating highly available tomcat clusters for business critical applications. Installed/Configured and Managed Jfrog Artifactory repositories and artifactory libraries Handled three successful Hybris Implementations projects Experience in building .Net Applications using MSBuild and deploy them to IIS Servers using Ansible playbooks. Administrated and managed Bitbucket and Jenkins. Confidential Build and Release Engineer Responsibilities: Responsible for maintaining Multiple DevOps tools & configuring across all projects GIT, Maven, Jenkins, and ANT. Maintained build related scripts developed in ANT and Maven. Modified build configuration files including build.xml, Pom.xml As a Jenkins Admin responsible for creating & configuring Jenkins jobs regarding SNAPSHOT, Release Candidate for all the Projects. Extensive experience in administrating and configuring Jenkins server Following Jenkins best practices and latest plugins, developing Jenkins jobs which are integrating wif Bitbucket repos. Responsible for Bitbucket administration, merges, branch creation and user support, create and maintain Git hooks and scripts for notifications and automation. Standardize software development processes. Used scripts to automate builds and create deployment packages for various environments. Administrated and managed Bitbucket and Jenkins. Experienced in build/deployments and administrating in Hybris Ecommerce platform. Managed the deployment activities for multiple server instances by enabling passwordless ssh communication between the servers and utilizing the sync utility in the shell scripts Communicate wif Development/QA/Management teams on SCM requirement analysis, builds, maintaining libraries. Primary responsibilities include Build and Deployment of the java/J2EE applications onto different environments like Dev, QA, STG and Prod. Successfully implemented and supported migration of SVN to GIT. Experience in building .Net Applications using MSBuild and deploy to IIS Servers. Created Branches and Tags for each Release and particular Environments. Merged the Branches after the Code Freeze. Used Agile and Scrum Methodologies Confidential Build and Release Engineer Responsibilities: Integrated ant wif Shell scripts created in Bash, Cshell & Korn shell to automate the builds for the Java/J2EE based applications. Managed the deployment activities for multiple server instances by enabling passwordless ssh communication between the servers and utilizing the sync utility in the shell scripts. Responsible for managing the SVN repository, user access, projects, branches backups and routine administration tasks including maintenance. Created branching strategy for major and minor releases of a product. Implemented and maintained configuration management best practice using Subversion, Ant, Jenkins/ Hudson including iterative development techniques, branching and merging of development, error processing and notifications Responsible in administering, Configuring and managing builds to various environments using Jenkins as a continuous integration (CI) server on RHEL. Created tags in SVN and separate development/Iteration branches for the developers and once tested merged back to trunk at various stages of software development. Responsible to manage and administer Subversion repositories. Worked wif Development and QA teams to establish a build schedule, execute the builds and troubleshoot build failures. Maintained and executed build scripts by coordinating wif development and QA teams Responsible in doing build and deploying on different environments simultaneously. Deployed the EAR and WAR archives into WebLogic and WebSphere Servers. Configured and Maintained Apache web servers for Release Management Team's internal use. Provided assistance to developers in resolving problems Created and Maintained Subversion repositories, branches and tags. Acted as an Integrator for performing merge, rebase and baseline operations. Enforced development policies using Subversion hooks and other metadata Worked wif the Test Leads and Managers to schedule activities in Testing and Production environment. Troubleshooting the failure of deployment of applications to an environment. Responsible for doing builds and deploying them on various QA environments. Experienced in authoring Maven pom.xml files, performing releases wif the Maven release plugin. Involved in setting up JIRA as defect tracking system and configured various workflows, customizations and plugins for the JIRA bug/issue tracker. Defined and implemented build and deployment strategies for all applications. Created and implemented Continuous Integration plan based environments. Have good experience in all stages of Build lifecycle - from analysis, development, implementation and support of builds, unit testing and deployments Primary duties include Build and Deployment of the java applications onto different environments like Dev, QA, UAT and Prod. Worked in Cross-Platform Environments like UNIX and Windows. Prepared the Release Plan Document for all the Production Releases such as Rollback Plan or Back Out Plan, Implementation Plan and Test Plans Performed Implementation Planning meetings prior to deployment Coordinated Mock Deployments and partnering wif Project Managers on code Releases Perform quality control on build requests and reviewing entrance criteria. Build deployment plans to raise change requests