SUMMARY Overall 8 years of extensive experience in Automating, configuring, and deploying instances on cloud environments and Data centers. Experience in the areas of DevOps, CI/CD Pipeline, Build and release management, AWS/Azure, and Linux/Windows Administration Experienced with principals and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) in Agile, scrum, and Waterfall methodologies. Involved in designing and deploying applications utilizing almost all theAWSstack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, ELB, EBS, VPC, RDS, DynamoDB, SNS, SQS, IAM, KMS, Lambda, Kinesis) and focusing on high - availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling inAWSCloud Formation,deployment services (OpsWorks andCloudFormation) and security practices (IAM,CloudWatch,CloudTrail). Experienced in cloud automation using, AWScloud Formation Templates, Chef, Puppet. Implemented multiple CI/CD pipelines as part of DevOpsrole for on-premises and cloud-based software using Jenkins, Chef and AWS/Docker. Involved heavily in setting up the CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Maven, Nexus, GitHub, Puppet, Terraform and AWS Configured and managed Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) to implement fault tolerance and avoid asingle point of failure of applications, thus providing high reliability and efficient usage. Experienced inAzureIaaS, Provisioning VM's, Virtual Hard disks, Virtual Networks, Deploying Web Apps and Creating Web-Jobs,AzureWindows server 2008/2012/R2, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Visual Studio, Windows PowerShell, Cloud infrastructure. Experienced in configuring Cloud platform such as Virtual Networks Multi-site, Cross-site, VMs,AzureAD, Load Balancers,AzureSQL, Cloud Services, etc. Kubernetesis being used to orchestrate the deployment, scaling,and management of Docker Containers. Used Jenkins pipelines to drive all microservices builds out to the Docker registry and tan deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed by KubernetesLinux, Bash, GIT, Docker, AWS Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploy. AWS and OpenStack to provision new machines for clients. S3 Storage Services on AWS Developed microservice on boarding tools leveraging Python and Jenkins allowing for easy creation and maintenance of build jobs and Kubernetesdeploy and services. Production experience in large environments using configuration management tools like Chef, Ansible,and Puppet supporting Chef Environment with 500+ servers and involved in developing manifests. Developed Chef Cookbooks to manage systems configuration. Written Chef Cookbooks, recipes to automate theinstallation of Middleware Infrastructure like Apache Tomcat, JDK and configuration tasks for new environments etc. Experience in Configuration Management, Cloud Infrastructure, and Automation like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Chef, SVN, GitHub, Clear Case, Tomcat, and Linux. Utilize Cloud formation and Puppet by creating DevOps processes for consistent and reliable deployment methodology. Orchestrated and migrated CI/CD processes using Cloud Formation and Terraform Templates and Containerized the infrastructure using Docker, which was setup in Vagrant,AWS, andVPCs. Having good hands-on experience with Apache Kafka Involved in JIRA as defect tracking system and configure various workflows, customizations,and plugins for JIRA bug/issue tracker integrated Jenkins with JIRA, GitHub. Provided planning, installing, configuring, and upgrading support forvRealizeAutomation &vRealize Orchestrator. Design and implementation ofvRealizesuite and SAN/NAS implementation and management. Extensively experienced in Bash, Perl, Python, Ruby scripting on Linux. Experience in administering and maintainingLinuxservers in production environments.Supported in theinstallation of packages/patches onLinuxplatforms.Implemented Backup & Disaster recovery management onLinuxplatforms. Experienced in configuration and maintenance of commonLinuxservices such as Tomcat, Apache, MySQL, NFS, FTP, Postfix, LDAP, DHCP, DNS BIND, HTTP, HTTPS, SSH, iptables,andfirewall etc. Strong understanding of writing the automation of processes using the shell script with bash and Python Building servers with jumpstart using Kickstart, CD on atimely basis, along with corporate wide requirements. Implemented Corp, 2FA, and role-based autantication mechanism in Azure CXP tools which uses Microsoft Azure Active Directory and DSTS (Datacenter Security Token Service). As an AWS Cloud Engineer, me was responsible for designing, orchestrating, and building the end-to-end application solutions environment. TECHNICAL SKILLS Cloud Services: Amazon Web Services(AWS), Azure, OpenStack, Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Virtualization: VMware ESX/ESXI, Windows Hyper-V, vSphere 5.x, Datacenter Virtualization, Power VM, Virtual Box, Citrix Xen, KVM. Operating Systems: Red Hat Linux 4/5/6/7, CentOS, Fedora, SUSE LINUX, UNIX, Windows servers 20032008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2012R2, Windows 2000/2003/XP/vista/7/8/10, Ubuntu 12/13/14Sun Solaris 8/9/10/11, HPUX 10.x/11.x Automation/configuration Tools: Chef, Puppet, Docker, Vagrant, Ansible, Jenkins, Hudson, Bamboo, KickstartJumpstart, Terraform, Kubernetes, ANT, Maven. Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, JBOSS 4.x/5.x, Web Logic (8/9/10), WebSphere Apache 1.3.x, Apache 2.0.x, and ngnix, IIS Database Technologies: DB2, SQL Server, MySQL, RDS, NoSQL- MongoDB, Cassandra DB, DynamoDB Scripting languages: Ruby, Python, Perl, HTML5, PHP, Bash/shell Scripting, PowerShell Scripting YAMLJSON. Networking/Protocol: FTP/SFTP, SMTP, TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, NDS, DHCP, NFS, Cisco Routers, Juniper Routers Version Control Tools: GIT, SVN (Subversion), CVS Monitoring Tools: Nagios, Splunk, Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana(ELK), CloudWatch, CloudTrailDynatrace Application Servers: Web Logic Application Server 9.x, 10.x, Apache Tomcat 5.x/7.x, Red Hat JBOSS 4.22.GA, WebSphere 6.x/7.x/8.x PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, NY AWS Cloud DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Experiencing Cloud and DevOps engineer in Automating, Configuring, and deploying instances on AWS, AZURE Cloud environments and Data centers. Expertise in configuring the monitoring and alerting tools according to the requirement like AWS CloudWatch, AWS CloudTrail, Dynatrace, Nagios, Splunk Enterprise, SNMP monitoring for the VPN connections and maintain Virtual Data Center and Implement alerts and monitoring for better availability and performance for VDC resources. WrittenCloudFormation Templates (CFT) in JSON and YAML format to build the AWS services with the paradigm of Infrastructure as a Code. Experiencing with Lambda, EMR. Experiencing in ITIL processes like Service Strategy, Service Design, Service Transaction, Service Operation and Continual Service Improvement. Configure ELK stack in conjunction with AWS and using Logstash to output data to AWS S3 Involving in AWS EC2/VPC/S3/SQS/IOT/SNS based automation through Terraform, Hbose, Ansible, Python, Bash Scripts. Adopted new features as they were released by Amazon, including ELB&EBS. DevOps role converting existing AWS infrastructure to Server-less architecture (AWS Lambda, Kinesis) deployed via terraforming. Involving Cloud Management Platform too and automation scripts frameworks to improve operational procedures. And experienced with the fortify for Data flow, control flow. Experience in Virtualization technologies like VMWare, Vagrant and worked with containerizing applications like Docker, Kubernetes. Experience with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker-registries and Kubernetes. Installing and Implementing Ansible configuration management system. Used Ansible to manage Web applications, Environments configuration Files, Users, Mount points,and Packages. Automate server configuration management & deployment process using Ansible We had usedAnsible-Galaxy for Templates and modified as per our requirement.Installed and ImplementedAnsibleconfiguration management system. UsedAnsibleto manage Web applications, Environments configuration Files, Users, Mount points and Packages. Maintained high availability clustered and standalone server environments and refined automation components with scripting and configuration management (Ansible) and experienced in writingAnsible scripts. Maintaining high availability clustered and standalone server environments and refined automation components with scripting and configuration management (Ansible) and experienced in writing Ansible scripts.Responsible for managing cloud computing tool AWS and the code in ALM tool me.e., GIT(version controlling). Migrating the production SQL Server Schema to the AWS RDS Aurora instance. Wrote SQL Queries and worked on administration for optimizing and increasing the performance of the database. Experiencing in configuring Cloud Platform such as Virtual Networks Multi-site, Cross-site, VMs, Azure AD, Load Balancers, Azure SQL, Cloud Services, etc. The established connection fromAzureto On-premise datacenter usingAzureExpressRoute for Single and Multi-subscription connectivity. Implementing and maintainingAnsible Configuration management spanning several environments in Vrealize and the AWS cloud. Responsible for managing cloud computing tool AWS and the code in ALM tool me.e., GIT (version controlling). Integration with Splunk for API traffic monitoring and health checks. Environment: Ansible, Jenkins, AWS (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, RDS, SNS, SQS, VPC, Redshift, Cloud formation, Cloudwatch, ELK Stack), python (BOTO API), Shell scripting, Ruby, Linux Administration, Terraform, Ant, Cassandra, MongoDB, Docker, Kubernetes, JIRA, GIT, Splunk. Confidential, Atlanta, GA AWS DevOps Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Leveraged AWS Cloud Services such as EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems dat handled expected and unexpected load bursts. Implemented Server-less architecture using AWS Lambda with Amazon S3 and Amazon Dynamo DB. Also, migrated 300+ servers from on premise to AWS Cloud. Implemented AWS high-availability using AWS Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) which performed balance across instances in multiple availability zones. Worked on ELK architecture and its components like Elastic search, Log stash and Kibana for log analytics. Handled installation, administration, configurationof ELK stack on AWS. Performed Log analysis such as full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and cloud Watch. Extensively involved in infrastructure as code, execution plans, resource graph and change automation using Terraform. Managed AWS infrastructure as code using Terraform. Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets.Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible. Automated various service and application deployments with ANSIBLE on CentOS and RHEL in AWS. Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers. Administered and created a Build, Test, deploy chain environment using Jenkins, and SVN/GIT with Dev/Test branching model for weekly and scheduled releases. Automated the merging of branches as per the requirements. Maintenance of source code in GIT. Branching, Creating LABELS, merging of codes on GIT for QA testing and release. Worked on Continuous Integration environment and for End-to-End automation for all build and deployments (Jenkins, Nexus and Continuous delivery environment (puppet, Yum, (CI and CD process) Using Jenkins, Nexus, Yum and ANSIBLE. Created Docker compose file using YAML for deploying MEAN Stack(MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, Node JS) applications onto Docker containers before deploying them into production environment. Responsible for building application full automation pipeline for deployment into AWS using Jenkins, Artifactory, Chef and Terraform. Involved in using of Docker and OpenShift to manage Micro services.Experienced in deploying Micro Services to App Servers and Database Changes to Oracle, db2, MSSQL and MYSQL databases. Used Jenkins and pipelines to drive all micro services builds out to the Docker-registry and tan deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes. Initiated Microservices application through Docker and Kubernetes cluster formation for scalability of the application. Deployed Microservices with Ansible Playbook in Docker containers Automated Compute Engine and Docker Image Builds with Jenkins and Kubernetes, created private cloud using Kubernetes dat supports DEV, TEST and PROD environments. Experience in integrating Unit Tests and Code Quality Analysis Tools like Junit and Selenium. Continuous Integration principals and practices for the Billing Development Team using Jenkins JNLP Nodes, Subversion, ClearQuest, JUnit, Atlassian JIRA. Install SonarQube and configured it to run code quality tests and reports after Maven build scripting is initiated. Has used other code quality tools. Created nightly builds with integration to code quality tools such as SonarQube and created quality gates in SonarQube dashboard and enforced in the pipelines to fail the builds when conditions not met. Integrate Monitoring and reporting tools for e.g. Nagios with DevOps automate workflow and with APM tools AppDynamicsworked on monitoring from the scratch across the infrastructure, monitoring the log management and production health. Used Docker to containerize custom web applications and deploy them on Digital Ocean with Ubuntu instances through SWARM Cluster and to automate the application deployment in cloud using Vagrant. Experience in writing Bash shell scripts and Python to automate the administrative tasks and management using Cron. Experience with working on multi-platform servers using Nagios tool, utilized this tool to configure and monitor. Worked on user administration setup, maintaining account, and monitor system performance. Environment: Ansible, Jenkins, AWS (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, RDS, SNS, SQS, VPC, Redshift, Cloud formation, Cloudwatch, ELK Stack), python (BOTO API), Shell scripting, Ruby, Linux Administration, Terraform, Ant, Cassandra, MongoDB, Docker, Kubernetes, JIRA, GIT, Splunk. Confidential, MN DevOps/AWS Engineer Responsibilities: Supervised theDevopsteam for infrastructure support on AWS cloud and designed a highly available secure multi zone AWS cloud infrastructure utilizing Chef with AWS Cloud Formation. Responsible for managing Ubuntu, Linux and windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 instance by creating Chef Nodes through Open Source Chef Server. Launched AWS EC2 instances using Amazon Web Services (Linux/Ubuntu/RHEL) for development, test and production environments. Responsible for the development and maintenance of Auto Scaling and Elastic Load Balancers. Set up preconfigured RHEL5.x and 6.x on local and in the cloud on AWS EC2 and defined AWS Security Groups which acted as virtual firewalls dat controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances. Expertise in configuring the monitoring and alerting tools according to the requirement like AWS CloudWatch, AWS CloudTrail, Dynatrace, Nagios, Splunk Enterprise, SNMP monitoring for the VPN connections. Worked on Multiple AWS instances, set the security groups, Elastic Load Balancer(ELB) and AMIs, Auto-scaling to design cost TEMPeffective, fault tolerant and highly available systems. Worked on the migration from VMware to AWS and used Chef to automate the infrastructure in AWS by creating EC2, S3, RDS, VPC. Worked with Chef for all the software configurations and written multiple complex Cookbooks and Recipes for pushing the configurations to various enterprise nodes. Development and version control of Chef Cookbooks, testing of Cookbooks using Food critic and Test Kitchen and running recipes on nodes managed by on premise Chef Server. Involved in Automating the cloud deployments using chef, python and AWS Cloud Formation Templates. Used Jenkins, Chef, shell scripts to automate the code deployment & automation of continuous integration infrastructure. Worked with various components of Chef including Chef Server, workstations, Nodes, configurations of chef-client and written cookbooks and recipes for Chef and assigning roles to nodes. Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates. Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using Puppet, Bamboo, Open stack in Linux environments. Efficiently worked on migration of code from Bit Bucket repositories to the Bamboo server and worked on SonarQube for Code analysis check. Worked closely with QA and testing teams for automation, testing and build and in error fixing while deployment and release phases by integrating Jira to Bamboo. Expertise in configuring, installing, managing and trouble-shooting Web Sphere ApplicationServer 8.x7.0/6.x/5.x/4.x, Apache Server on AIX/Windows environments. Installed and configured MW products such as Web logic, Tomcat, JBoss and Apache using HPSA (Hewlett Packard server automation) tool and used Anthill Pro tool for deployments. Worked on upgrading Middle Ware projects and upgraded Web logic 11g/12.1.x versions to 12.2.1, Tomcat 6.x/7.x to 8.x versions. Installed and configured Web logic 12.2.1 from scratch (created domains, multiple managed instances, machines, clusters and configured Node manager, data sources, JMS and deployed applications). Configured Web logic plug-in on Apache web servers. Expertise in customizing Splunk for Monitoring, Application Management and Security as per customer requirements and industry best practice. Design solutions and concepts for data aggregation and visualization. Splunk deployment, configuration and maintenance across a variety of UNIX and Windows platforms. Able to troubleshoot Splunk server problems and issues. Experience in writing Jira API Tools to auto-move Service Desk tickets of one issue type to a Jira project of another issue type and to extract the list of Jira users with the respective Jira Groups and Project Roles. Customized migrated JIRA projects as requested by users, including optimizing workflows, creating custom calculated fields to support reporting needs, and managing real world XRAY/JIRA reporting gadgets/widgets. Implemented the confluence configuration, setup and administration tasks like: managing users & groups, add-ons, plugins, macros and templates. Environment: GIT, Jenkins, Chef, AWS EC2, S3, Route 53, Opsworks, VPC, Elastic Block Storage RDS, Python, Cloud watch, Docker, Linux AMI, AWS Elastic Load Balancer, Vagrant, Nagios, Auto scaling groups, Nginx, Apache Tomcat, JIRA, Ubuntu, Windows server NT, Oracle server. Confidential, Tampa, FL Build Release Engineer Responsibilities: Comprehensive experience with AWS services like Amazon S3, RDS, EC2, Cloud Formation, Lambda, VPC, ELB, Glacier, Elastic Block Store, DynamoDB, Amazon RDS, CodeDeploy, CloudWatch, Amazon IAM, SES, SQS, Security Groupsand Route 53 in Agile environment Tasks performed on performance tuning, capacity planning for AWS environments, monitoring, resource utilization and alerts using CloudWatch; implement hybrid architectures, routing private connections, peering and infrastructure zoning by VPC;CloudFormationtemplates to deploy infrastructure for environment creation;CodePipeline to design and implement a CI/CD pipeline Working for DevOps Platform team responsible for specialization areas related to CHEF for Cloud Automation. Administration of RHEL 5,6,7 which includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading and loading patches, troubleshooting on both Pseries and vmware virtualization systems Developed scripts using PERL, BASH and BATCH files for Automation of Activities and builds. Authored application using Spring Cloud services (spring version of Netflix OSS-Eureka, Circuit Breaker, and Ribbon). Deployed application using Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) CLI. Use of Docker to mange micro services for development and testing Written and developed CHEF Cookbooks from scratch for custom installation of application. Used CHEF for Continuous Delivery. Managed CI and CD process and delivered all application in rpms. Responsible for CI and CD using JENKINS, Maven and CHEF. Worked extensively with different Bug tracking tools like JIRA, Remedy Actively involved in architecture of DevOps platform and cloud solutions. Integration of Automated Build with Deployment Pipeline. Currently installed CHEF Server and clients to pick up the Build from JENKINS repository and deploy in Confidential environments (Integration, QA, and Production). Chef to aid with our deployment process, and migrating in house systems to Amazon Cloud Services. Using Chef and AWS allowed me to reduce costs for the department and eliminate unwarranted resources. Automated provisioning of cloud infrastructure with Chef. Replaced existing manual deployment and management processes with Chef and AWS Ops Works stacks across 4 product platforms Installed and support multiple databases and applications including Oracle, MySQL with WebLogic, JBOSS,Oracle and Apache Tomcat. Extensively involved in infrastructure as code, execution plans, resource graph and change automation usingTerraform. Supported Continuous delivery strategy on monitoring applications in pre-production and production environment using AppDynamics. Developed environments of different applications onAWSby provisioning on EC2 instances using Docker, Bash andTerraform. Experience in writing and organizing Shell and Perl scripting for building complex software systems. Created branches, labels and performed merges in SVN and GIT. Used Jenkins innovatively to automate most of the build related tasks. Improved throughput and efficiency of build system by providing managers to trigger required build. Specialized in working closely with system engineers to resolve the issues and handled release process for over twenty-five applications which are at low and production phases with multiple deployment tools like Jenkins and Bamboo. Monitoring, analyzing, and responding to security events utilizing security event management and reporting tools. Systemperformance monitoring, tuning andlog management. TCP/IP Networking troubleshooting and Linux/Network Administration to identify the problems and resolve the issues. Worked closely with network/incident analysts and IC analysts to monitor current attack and threat information to identify. Apache web server maintenance, installation, configuration, managing web hosting including name-based, secure and private site, monitoring web server performance, certificate generate, security checks and periodic upgrades, manage user accounts, back up. Implemented Jira with Mavenreleaseplug-in for tracking bugs and defects. Implemented and maintained server virtualization using VMware, ESXi and Oracle Virtual Manager. Coordinated with application team in installation, configuration and troubleshoot issues with JBoss servers. Environment: AWS (Amazon Web Services) Chef, Docker, Kubernetes, Microservices, VMware, Jenkins, Jira, Maven, Subversion, SVN, GIT, Nexus, Shell, PERL, BASH, Solaris, LINUX 5.x, 6.x& 7.x Confidential Linux System Administrator/Middleware Engineer Responsibilities: Installed, configured WebSphereApplication Server Base/ND/XD 8.5/8.0/WebSphere Process Server V7 and IBM HTTP Server 6.0/7.0 in Redhat Linux and Windows. Installed and Configured IBM Weblogic Application Server, JDBC Drivers and Servlet Engines along with troubleshooting and recovery on AIX, Solaris and Windows. Deployed EAR/WAR files on multiple Servers/Clusters and maintained Load balancing, high availability and Failover functionality. Experience in installing, configuring and maintaining application Server like WebSphere and Web Servers like Web Logic, Apache HTTP and Tomcat on UNIX and Linux. Installation and administration of VMware vSphere ESXi 6.5 environment, Evaluated and implemented new hardware and software solutions dat benefited architecture and operations implemented VMware SRM and troubleshot performance issues. Worked on VMware for Virtual server builds, increasing memory, CPU, adding disks, Maintenance on ESX hosts VM and server/storage migrations. Use VMware, VSphereand vCenter Update Manager to apply patches to virtual machines and alsoVirtual Private Networking (VPN) tools and techniques to maintain these VM's. Samba and Apache Web Services Performed different software changes in VMware environment on customer's servers. Followed up with Data Center personal for hardware related changes. Deployment and troubleshooting of JAR, WAR, and EAR files on both stand alone and clustered environment in JBoss 4.2/5.0, Weblogic 8.x/9.x/10.x and Apache tomcat 6.0. Managed the security and performance optimizations for EJB containers and web applications in IBM WebSphere, IBM HTTP Server and Apache web server. Generated http plug-in config and moved it to the web servers. Troubleshoot problems for plug-in regeneration. Configure build scripts (ANT) for build Jobs and create, configure nodes on Jenkins. Worked on Implementation of Azure Key Vault in different applications to halp maintaining keys and secrets across different environments in a secured way. Installed monitoring agents like New Relic, Log analyzer - Splunk Forwarder on RHEL 6.3. Environment: Linux (RHEL 5.x/6.x), Solaris 9/10/11, RedHat Satellite Server, Apache Tomcat, KickStart, BondingRAID, WebSphere, SQL, Agile, WebLogic, Subversion, Samba, NFS, FTP, LVM, Tomcat, Apache, bash. Confidential Linux System Administrator Responsibilities: Extensive noledge of common protocols such as SNMP, HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP, NTP, DNS, TCP/IP, and FTP. Building servers with Jumpstart / Kickstart, CD on timely basis, along with corporate wide requirements. Proactively monitor production database tablespaces, instance, alert log, etc by utilizing Cron job andLinuxbash script. Managed systems routine backup, scheduling jobs, enabling Cron jobs, enabling system logging and network logging of servers for maintenance. Experience in working with monitoring tools like Nagios to trigger the event handlers to send a notification and act according to the script. Utilizing SAR, Netstat, Iostat and Vmstat for performance analysis, tuning and capacity planning, problem prevention, detection and resolution. Extensive use of Logical Volume Manager (LVM), creating volume groups, logical volumes and disk mirroring in HP-UX and Linux. Configured Kick-start for RHEL (4, and 5), Jumpstart for Solaris and perform image installation through network. Created virtual server on VMware ESX/ESXiand Oracle Virtual boxbased host and installed operating system on guest Servers. Experience in writing UNIX shell scripts using commands like awk, sed, tcsh, bash, ksh and perl to automate system admin jobs. Responsible for the operation, maintenance and integrity of a distributed, networked based environment. Perform both interactive and automated (Kickstart) installations of Red Hat Enterprise Linux. Plan and execute RPM and YUM packages and update installations necessary for optimal system performance. Viewing and controlling the Processes running on the system and automating repetitive tasks. User Administration by creating, maintaining User's accounts and groups, setting up User environments. Manage file systems using software RAID and Logical Volume Management. Create Virtual machine using VmWareand KVM, automate disaster recovery planning and maintenance for the virtual environment. Responsible for creating and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in Solaris, CentOS and Redhat Linux. Utilize commands and utilities such as iptable, netstat, ping to implement operating systemand network security. Setup auto mount to make storage available automatically when a user needs access to storage. Troubleshot fstab problems and applied the required steps to fix issue. Environment: Linux (RHEL 5.x/6.x), Solaris 9/10/11, RedHat Satellite Server, Apache Tomcat, Bonding, RAIDWebSphere, SQL, Agile, WebLogic, Subversion, Samba, NFS, FTP, LVM, Tomcat, Apache, bash. 