SUMMARY 12+ Years of IT Experience and which comprises of Linux Systems Administration, DevOps, Build/Release Management and Cloud Management. Setup/Managing Linux Servers on Amazon, Azure and Openstack. Experience working in AWS Cloud platform and its features, which includes EC2, ECS, VPC, AMI, SNS, RDS, Cloud Watch, AWS Config, Auto scaling, IAM, S3. Last three years using Terraform for different cloud technologies. 4 years of experience wif migrating on - prem to AWS and recently using ECS. Configured VMs in availability sets using Azure portal to provide resiliency for IaaS based solution and scale sets using Azure Resource Manager to manage network traffic 3 years of experience wif Meso and other containerization tools. Have worked on in the last year helping deploy and migration to Cloud Foundry. Configure pipelines for Cloud Foundry migrations. Experience in migrating on-premise solutions/applications to AzureCloud Worked on Apache Mesos Framework wif Docker containers Worked on Building the Docker Images for Java Applications and icinga2 and Successfully running them in Production environment. Managed the Docker Registry for our team Internally Creating fully automated CI/CD infrastructure and processes for multiple projects Worked on Puppet and Ansible Configuration management for developing the manifests and playbooks to automate the Installations and configuration changes to the Servers. Installed and configured DataStax Enterprise Cassandraclusters for Production and Pre-Production Environments Experience on creating Immutable Infrastructure using Packer, Ansible and Terraform tools for Different Clouds (Openstack, Azure and AWS) Responsible for ensuring Systems & Network Security, maintaining performance and setting up monitoring usingCloud WatchandNagios. Strong technical knowledge in Jboss Application server implementation, support, workload management and performance tuning including Web server setup configuration wif Jboss App Server Worked on Creation and Modifying the DNS and Load Balancers for the applications. Experience wif SSL and SSO configuration on Webservers. Knowledge of writing Linux Shell Scripts and Python Scripts to automate System admin jobs TECHNICAL SKILLS Web/Application Servers: Jboss 5.1/6.0 EAP, IBM WebSphere 6.1, Apache 2.2, Tomcat 6/7. Virtualization: AWS, Azure, Docker, VMware, and Openstack. Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows 2008/2012 Server, CentOS 6.0/7.0, Sun Solaris 10, IBM AIX 5, Ubuntu 10 and RHEL 5/6/7. Database: MS SQL Server 2005, MS Access, Oracle 8i/9i, Cassandra 2.1 Scripting Tools: Bash Shell Scripting, Python Monitoring Tools: CA Wily, Nagios, and Icinga2. Configuration Tools: Puppet 3.4, Ansible. Tools: Autosys 4.5/R11, Jenkins, Snaplogic Server Others: Jira, confluence, Mesos, Zookeeper, Marathon. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Sr Cloud/Devops Engineer Responsibilities: As a Sysadmin Lead who can independently deploy and maintain software in the Cloud Environment Proficient inAWSservices like VPC, EC2, ECS, S3, ELB, AutoScalingGroups(ASG), EBS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, CloudWatch. Worked on Baking the Images in Openstack, Azure and AWS using Ansible and Packer and Build our Immutable Infrastructure using Terraform Migrating applications from on-prem to AWS and using ECS. Worked on Core Technologies OpenStack, Cloud Foundry and Nagios for Monitoring, Git/SVN for Source Control, Anthill Pro/Jenkins for CI/CD Assist the team in configuring and Managing the different Cloud Infrastructure. Experience wif producing high traffic Internet sites, multi data center environments, Open Source technologies. Worked on Apache Mesos, Marathon, Zookeeper framework and Docker containers. Providing Operational and Infrastructure Support for applications running on Open stack, Azure, Cloud Foundry and AWS Created and maintain fully automated CI/CD pipelines for code deployment usingJenkins for Different Projects Involved in installing, configuring and administratingDataStax Enterprise Cassandra and DataStax OpsCenter Worked on Puppet manifests and Ansible playbooks. Experience in Monitoring and Splunk logging Experience wif Tomcat Application Server and Apache Web servers Work wif application teams and troubleshoot the issues. Requesting the SSL certificates and updating them on Haproxies Worked on the DNS changes for the Servers and Applications Sites Network traffic shaping for the application using the Global server load balancing Involved in writing scripts in Bash shell and Python to automate the application tasks. Determine the capacity and performance impacts. Environment: Centos 6.5/7, Ubuntu 12, Tomcat 7, Mesos 0.21/0.22, Marathon 0.8/0.9, Zookeeper, Puppet 3.4, Ansible, Icinga, Cassandra, Bamboo and Haproxy. Confidential Lead Web & Cloud Administrator Responsibilities: Building and maintaining the Linux & windows Servers in AWS Cloud environment Worked on AWS EC2, RDS, EBS and S3 Jboss JMS configuration, Connection Pools, Queue and Topics Tuned, Managed and Monitored the JVM performance by adjusting JVM configuration settings, Heap size, garbage collection and JDBC pools Tuned OS parameters like Swap and virtual Memory settings to improve the Jboss performance Setting up the configurations in Apache SSO Configurations through Saml 2.0 Worked on developing and testing the Puppet manifests to automate the installations and make configuration changes on the AWS Cloud servers. Coordinating wif DNS & SSO teams for the changes to be implemented. Installing and Configuration of Snaplogic integration on AWS Cloud Experience in leading the team members and assigning the Tasks to them. Involved in problem determination using application and error logs. Providing step-by-step instructions for ways to resolve issues when clients cannot install an application. Taking proactive steps to look for before client reports a problem. Jboss application server Performance tuning and troubleshooting. Determine the capacity and performance impacts. Work wif application teams and troubleshoot the issues. Environment: Windows 2008/2012, CentOS 6, Ubuntu 10, AWS, Jboss 5.1/6, Apache 2.2, Tomcat 6, Puppet 2.4, Jenkins 1.4 and Oracle 9i Confidential Jboss & Linux Administrator Responsibilities: Installing and configuration of Jboss 4 application server for DEV, QA and PROD systems. Configuring Jboss wif different alternative databases. Jboss JMS configuration, Jboss JMS configuration, Connection Pools, Queue and Topics. To Deploy File net Java utilities into Linux environment. Scheduling the Utilities to run in Linux using Autosys Job management tool. Shell scripting support to automate the daily tasks and help the Application team. Worked on AWS Cloud Servers. Jboss application server Performance tuning and troubleshooting. Work wif application teams and troubleshoot the issues. Involved in performance tuning of JVM by analyzing garbage collection matrix. Handled Memory issues and leaks by tuning and profiling wif the help of third party tools. Mail notification to concern Team of Java utilities for any failures. Disk space Management for all the utilities in Linux servers & notification. User accounts creation & maintenance. Secure shell (ssh) password less authentication. Backups, Security & Scalability. Taking proactive steps to look for before a problem is reported by client. Environment: Windows 2008, Red Hat Linux 5/6, Jboss 4/5, Apache 2.0, CA Wily, CA Autosys R11, UNIX Shell Scripting Confidential Middleware Adminstrator Responsibilities: Discovery of all the Inventory in the Sites Gap Analysis on the sites and find the missing info from Site SPOC. Migration Approach for Servers and Applications. JBOSS 5/6 Administration wif expertise in Installation, Configuration and Tuning. Expertise in Installing, configuring and trouble-shooting Apache web server. Backup and Storage solutions. File and Print Server Solutions. Obsolescence Solutions. Co-ordination wif build team for any new Server builds. Application migration solutions. Coordinate wif application teams and troubleshot issues. Warranty Support for Applications after Successful Migration. Decommission of the Servers after successful Migration. Confidential Linux Administrator & Autosys Scheduler Responsibilities: Responsible for Creation of Batch jobs using JIL language. Scheduling them to run as per calendars in Development and Production environments. Additional requirements in PeopleSoft for cleaning the journals. Changing passwords of the FTP id s in different servers. Monitoring the daily batch flow schedule. Analyzing and fixing the abends of different applications in production. Moving and copying the files from source to destination locations in Linux. Escalating the Autosys & different servers performance related issues to SI team.