SUMMARY Over 5+ years of experience in designing, building and troubleshooting VMware vSphere and related products. Experience in installation and configuration of vCenter 4.0, 4.1, 5.0, 5.1, 5.5, 6.0 and 6.5 along with implementation of advanced options like linked mode and Enhanced Linked Mode (vSphere 6). Experience in upgrading vCenter server from 5.5 to 6.0. Excellent experience in installing and configuring various versions of ESX and ESXi (including 6.5) Experience in Physical to Virtual (P2V) and Virtual to Virtual (V2V) migrations using several tools like vCenter Convertor. Hands on experience in performing day to day operations on all ESXi and vCenter related components like troubleshooting alarms, monitoring performance charts, managing snapshots etc. Experience in designing and implementing disaster recovery with VMware Site Recovery Manager using vSphere replication and Array based replication. Excellent experience in working on all VMware advanced settings and technologies like vMotion, Storage vMotion, High Availability (HA), Distributed Resource Scheduler (DRS), Storage Distributed Resource Scheduler (SDRS), Resource Pools, Storage Clusters, etc. Familiar with VMware replication utilities and Array based replications from third party vendors that are used to support Disaster Recovery deployments like Site Recovery Manager (SRM) tool. Experience in working in a Disaster recovery environment where restored and rebuilt all the Windows based servers that were attacked by malware. Experience working with Active directory, Windows Group Policy Objectives (GPOs), Windows Domain structures, MS SQL server, windows clustering and domain controller setup Experience in configuring FC, iSCSI and NFS storage access to Esxi servers and managed the storage devices presented to the Esxi Servers. Worked on Platform Service Controllers and implemented several versions of vCenter installations like Embedded and External with high availability options. Good Knowledge in storage concepts like vSAN, NAS, RAID, Storage Groups, volumes etc. Knowledge on AD Domain Controllers, DNS, WINS, DHCP servers Significant experience with physical (Dell PowerEdge, HP ProLiant, Cisco UCS) and virtual (VMware/Hyper - V) servers Knowledge of ITIL/ITSM service management practices, specifically incident management, change management and problem management. Willing to relocate anywhere in United States. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Springfield, MA VMware Administrator Responsibilities: Managing a VMware environment of 6 vCenters and 190 Esxi hosts with more than 15,000 VM’s. Deployed new hosts and created ESXi clusters as required with all advanced configuration like HA, DRS and DPM. Created new VM templates for several Operating Systems with all the recommended and required settings for optimum performance and efficiency. Involved in several hundreds of physical to virtual migration or conversion process on a day to day basis. Created resource pools and VM folders as required and allocated the memory reservations and CPU shares based on the business requirements and VM performance. Created new volumes on storage arrays using Unisphere and added them as VMFS5 data stores to the ESXi hosts. Created new volumes on storage arrays and added them as Raw Device Mappings (physical RDM’s) Installation and configuration of virtual machines in an Enterprise SAN and NAS environment. Develop and maintain O&S Standard Operating Procedures for VMware desktop virtualization environment (VDI). Security hardening and Monitoring of VM's & ESX servers (CPU, Memory, Disk, Network Utilization) for Security Compliance. Creating and managing VM Ware cluster. Enabling HA and DRS features in a cluster. Created VLAN’s on Cisco UCS, Cisco Nexus 5k switches, Cisco Nexus 1000v and created port-profiles on N1K and port-groups on VMware distributed switch as required Configurations of Virtual switches and network connections. P2V and V2V conversions by using VMware Converter. Performing Snapshots, Cloning, cold migrations and hot migrations. Creating templates from VM's and deploy VM's from templates and allocate resources. Creating duplicate VM's using cloning technology. Moving VM's from one LUN to another LUN using Storage VMotion. Performance tuning of VMware servers, Virtual sessions and management of server resources between virtual machines. Moving physical machine to virtual machine using p2v converter. Configuring alarms. Root Cause & System Log Analysis and reporting. Troubleshooting problems with the help of Event Logs. Troubleshooting virtual machine issues. Environment: VM ware ESX 6.5, HP DL380, Dell PowerEdge, UCS C240 M3, TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, NTFS, (DHCP, DNS), Cisco Nexus 5K, CISCO switches, HP P4000, VMware Lab Manager, VMware converter, VMware Vsphere client, Fault tolerance, High Availability and Distributed resource scheduling Confidential, Charlotte, NC Windows and VMware Administrator Responsibilities: Managed the physical and virtual environment (VMware) of 10000 plus servers. Installed, configured and administered windows 2003/2008/2012/2014 servers. Built and deployed new servers on the network as needed. Configured users, groups, TCP\IP, DNS, WINS, DHCP on newly built servers and present the server to Domain controller. Involved in setting up group policies, configuring registry, IIS security and WMI control properties. Ensured the security of the server infrastructure by implementing industry best-practices regarding privacy, security, and regulatory compliance. Managed end user accounts, permissions, access rights, and storage allocations in accordance with best-practices. Performed system backups and restores using CommVault. Performed CommVault 1-touch Bare Metal Recovery (BMR) on physical servers. Troubleshooted CommVault CommCell issues while accessing GUI and restoring servers from backups available on CommVault. Anticipate, mitigate, identify, troubleshoot, and correct hardware and software issues on servers, and workstations. Escalated incidents as necessary. Performed software and hardware upgrades, patches and reconfigurations on all physical and virtual servers. Managed the physical environment of the server racks including cable management, documentation, labeling, and configuration of KVM switching for console and remote access on Dell and HP servers. Responsible for maintaining the virtual infrastructure hardware, operating systems, and VMs on servers which support business processing requirements. Maintained, upgraded, and implemented improvements to the VMWare vCenter and VMware ESXi infrastructure. Maintained VM templates for building servers in the virtual environment. Developed and maintained documentation about current environment setup, standard operating procedures, and best practices. Environment: VMware ESXi, vSphere, CommVault, NetApp, Windows server 2003/2008/2008 r2/2012/2014, Server Hardening, DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP, Networking, Windows Clustering, HP DL380, Dell PowerEdge M1000e. Confidential, Decatur, IL VMware Consultant Responsibilities: Involved in managing Virtual environment with 2 vCenter servers, 75 Esxi hosts and 2000 vm’s. Installed Site recovery manager instances at both protected and recovery sites. Implemented VMware virtual infrastructure to support server consolidation and disaster recovery. Configured placeholder data stores, protection groups, storage replication adapters and recovery plans. Performed test and actual (planned migrations) failovers on servers between protected and recovery sites. Involved in team meetings with application support team and maintained run books for their applications to configure Site recovery manager protection. Configured resource pools and folders to set up mappings on SRM. Configured Network mappings with Auto and manual IP configurations. Coordinated with application team and scheduled outages at points of least business impact. Created Esxi hosts and brought them online by configuring Network switches, security profile, DNS and routing, Authentication services and Storage adapters. Created LUN’s on storage centers using Dell Enterprise manager and added them to VMware as vmfs5 data stores. Upgraded Life cycle controller, BIOS, Fiber channel firmware on PowerEdge M620/M630 blades in Dell M1000e chassis and installed Esxi 6.0.0 via iDRAC. Built windows server 2012 and installed SQL express to upgrade Dell enterprise manager with Storage manager. Involved in writing basic PowerShell and PowerCLI scripts to automate tasks. Involved in troubleshooting vm’s, LUN’s, Dell storage centers and enterprise manager client Environment: VMware ESX 6.0, Site Recover Manager 6.0, Dell SAN, Enterprise manager, Dell CMC M1000e Chassis, Dell PowerEdge M620 blades, TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, NTFS, (DHCP, DNS), VMware vSphere client, Fault tolerance, High Availability and Distributed resource scheduling Confidential, Omaha, NE Windows and VMware Administrator Responsibilities: Performed Microsoft Server, Active Directory, Group Policy and desktop design functions Designed, created, and managed VMware Data Center virtualization environments Worked on DFS Management for File Server Designed, deployed and supported VMware ESXi Servers 4.1 and vSphere 4.1 and 5.0 environment Upgraded ESXi 4.1 to 5.0 and vSphere 4.1 to 5.0 Supported P2V, V2V using VMware vCenter Converter Involved in VMware Horizon View Migration of 1000 VDI users Performed VMotion, Cloning, HA Clustering, FT, and worked with Update Manger Created and Managed Data Stores in ESX/ESXi servers Managed Data Store in ESXi servers and SDRS Involved in VMware Infrastructure Implementation and Consolidation to implement Physical-to-Virtual (P2V) migrations, blade server capacity planning, high-availability and failover settings (where applicable) on newly installed blade servers and existing rack-mount servers. Handled business continuity and disaster recovery functions Designed, performed, and documented Microsoft Server security functions Configured and managed Hyper-V environment on Windows 2k8 with failover clustering Configured and Managed SCCM 2007 Managed file server backups and helped to set up SQL server Supported IIS server Assisted, as needed, on various projects and support issues Provided Tier 2 and 3 supports for the technology support center Managed DSView 3.0 environment Configured and managed print servers Responsible for attending change management meetings and submitting reports to management Implemented COB plan accordingly Responsible for attending review meeting with management Provided 24*7 on-call support for production environment Environment: vCenter, Esxi 4.1 and 5.0, vSphere 4.1 and 5.0, VMware Horizon, VDI, Dell PowerEdge servers, Microsoft Windows 2003, 2008 servers. Confidential VMWARE/Windows Admin Responsibilities: Configured Clusters for the ESXi hosts and created Anti-Affinity rules in the DRS to either keep the VMs together or separate them on ESXi hosts. Configuration of VMotion, vSwitch, and VLAN in VMware Virtual center. Administered Windows server 2008 R2 operating systems. Created resource pools and added VM's into the pools. Providing and maintaining user access in VMware virtual Center, configuring mail alert for any failure in HA, DRS, CPU and memory. Working on troubleshooting the triggered alarms generated from VMware VCenter Server and solving the SNMP traps rise in VCenter. Used Hot Plug feature for increasing the performances of virtual machine. Managed separate VMware clusters like QA, Development and Production. Took active part in troubleshooting VCenter and ESXi issues and also in system hardware failures. Perform capacity analysis of existing physical production environment using VMware Capacity planner. Migrated datacenters and converted physical servers to virtual servers using VMware Convertor. Monitoring and managing performance of ESXi servers and Virtual Machines using Virtual center server for HA, DRS. Involved in live migration of Virtual Machines and Virtual machines files using the VMotion and Storage VMotion. Creation & Troubleshooting of Virtual Network, ESX & Virtual Machines. Environment: VCenter, ESXi 4.0, ESXi 4.1, VMotion, Vsphere, Windows server 2008 R2, HA, DRS, Dell PowerEdge. Confidential Jr. Systems Administrator Responsibilities: Reducing number of physical servers through consolidation by identifying underutilized servers. Installation of vCenter Server, vCenter Components and upgrading VMware Tools. Creation of templates from VMs and deploying VMs from templates. Migrated datacenters and converted physical servers to virtual servers using VMware convertor resulting in a reduction of racks and power usage, decrease downtime during maintenance and upgrades and improved monitoring. Created and managed resource pools for virtual machines. Monitoring alarms and managing it using vCenter Server Notifications and VMs. Played a vital role in Creating Virtual Machines, Cloning virtual machines. P2V-V2V conversion using VMware stand-alone convertor, applying Patch updates Co-ordinate with Storage and Networking teams to ensure availability of allocated SAN. Involved in VMware updates manager to install & troubleshoot patches and updates on ESXi hosts and virtual machines. Troubleshooting virtual machine issues. Environment: Microsoft Windows Server 2003/2008, VMware ESXi 5.5/5.1, VCenter Server, VMware Update Manager. 