SUMMARY 8+ years of experience as a SCM, Environment Management and Build/Release, Deployment,“DevOps” Engineer specializing in implementing continuous delivery for modern software and infrastructure stacks. Great practical experience implementing and enhancing the end to end work flow of Continuous Integration (Jenkins, TeamCity, GoCD), Continuous Delivery and Continuous Deployment process for an organization. Experience in setting up AWS environments fromscratchand using Puppet, Ansible for configuration management. Experience in various programming and scripting languages especially Shell and Python scripting with focus onDevOpstools, CI/CD and performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services on AWS Cloud Architecture. Experience with Bug tracking tool like JIRA. Created and wrote shell scripts (Bash), Ruby, Python and PowerShell for automating tasks. In - depth experience setting up, maintaining and enhancing CI tools, particularly Jenkins. Experience in using version controller tools like Subversion (SVN), GIT, BitBucket, Stash, and PVCS. Responsible for merging, tagging and conflict resolution in GIT. Experience in building and deploying Dockercontainers using Dockerfiles. Proficient in orchestrating the Dockercontainers using the combination of tools like Docker-compose and kubernetes. Extensively worked on Hudson/Jenkins and Bamboo for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Good experience in automated Build technologies including Ant, Maven, Make and MSBuild. Implemented and supported CI process via and Bamboo for several java applications including setting up pipeline jobs and downstream job configurations in Jenkins. Experience of dealing with build failures, debugging and fixing the issues Hands-on experience on Chef as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change. Supported server/VM provisioning activities, middleware installation and deployment activities via chef. Great practical experience of DevOps techniques, working with development and operations teams to implement "Infrastructure-as-code" pipelines using Ansible and Chef. Written Chef cookbooks and recipes to Provision Several pre-prod environments consisting of Cassandra DB installations, WebLogic domain creations and several proprietary middleware installations. Proficient in Shell/Perl Scripting, Visual Build Pro, SQL, Clearmake, build utilities like Openmake, ANT and Cruise Control. Used Chefspec for Unit testing, Serverspec and Inspec for integration testing of cookbooks. Hands on experience in AWS provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Glacier, ELB, EBS, RDS, IAM and Cloud Formation. Experience with creation and administration of virtual machines onVMWareESXi and Infrastructure. Expert in deploying the code trough web application servers like Web Sphere/Web Logic/ Apache Tomcat inAWS. Strong experience in Oracle Fusion Middleware product design, installation, configuration, troubleshooting, patching and performance tuning. Experience in installation, configuration, backup, disaster recovery, maintenance, and support of Several Unix/Linux Servers. Created and implemented chef recipes to manage Rundeck and Jenkins instances. Ability in deploying the developed code in a WebSphere/WebLogic/Apache Tomcat/JBOSS. Experience in using bug tracking systems like JIRA, Remedy. Experience in managing the artifacts generated by MAVEN in the Nexus repository. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: WindowsServer,UNIX, LINUX, RHEL Source control tools: Subversion, Clear case, GIT and Perforce Build Tools: ANT, MAVEN, and MAKE, ROR, Ruby, Ansible CI Tools: Hudson, Jenkins, Build Forge, Chef, Puppet Repositories: Nexus, Artifactory Languages: C, C++, Perl scripting, Shell scripting, Python, SQL, Java/J2EE., Tibco Tracking tools: JIRA, Remedy, Clear Quest, TDD Web servers: Web logic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS Databases: ORACLE, SQL SERVER, MY SQL, DB2 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Devops Engineer Responsibilities: ReleaseEngineerfor a team that involved different development teams and multiple simultaneous software releases. Responsible for designing and deploying best SCM processes and procedures. Designing and implementing fully automated server build management, monitoring and deployment By Using Technologies like Chef. Responsible for CI and CD using Jenkins, Run deck and Chef. Developed the chef recipes, cookbooks using Ruby syntax and uploaded them to the master chef server using chef client tool like chef-repo. Managed servers on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform instances using Puppet, Chef Configuration management. Highly involved in Configuring and monitoring distributed and multi-platform servers using chef. Designed and implemented scalable, secure cloud architecture based on Amazon Web Services. Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud watch. Configured VPC in AWS fromscratch to setup various EC2 instances for Web and Application servers. Worked on migrating VMware to AWS using snowball and VM import/export. Created scripts in Python which integrated with Amazon API to control instance operations. Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed inPythonand Bash. Wrote automation Scripts using Python and Shell scripting. Automated deployments to Linux, Windows servers using Shell and PowerShell scripts. Maintained and coordinated environment configuration, controls, code integrity, and code conflict resolution. Created Docker containers to build, ship and run any app or image to deploy the applications. Analyze and resolve conflicts related to merging of source code for GIT. Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server. Managing virtual machines usingVMware, Oracle Virtual box, Docker. Implemented a continuous delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and Github whenever a new github branch get started. Installed and Configured the Nexus repository manager for sharing the artifacts within the company. Deployed Java/J2EE applications to Application servers in an Agile continuous integration environment and also automated the whole process. Involved in Research of the project application architecture to support/resolve build, compile, and test issues/problems. Environment: Java/J2EE, ANT, Maven, Subversion, Chef, Puppet, AWS, Oracle Fusion, Octopus, PowerShell, WebSphere, Python, Docker, GIT, SQL Server, Jenkins, Tomcat, Jira, VM ware, Linux, Shell Scripts, Perl Scripts, Scratch. Confidential DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Developed and implemented Software Release Management strategies for various applications according to the agile process. Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and mitigate potential risks associated with the releases. Managed SVN repositories for branching, merging, and tagging. Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming conventions using GIT source control. Use Puppet and Ansible Automation tools for configuration management in different systems. Implemented Infrastructure automation through Puppet, for auto provisioning, code deployments software installation and configuration updates. Writing/Modifying various Manifests and applying them on the nodes using Puppet. Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet. Used Puppet for Continuous Delivery and managed CI and CD process and delivered all application in rpms. Installed Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven and Maven Repository (Nexus Artifactory) and Deployed Apps using custom ruby modules through Puppet as a CI/CD Process. Used Ansible to manage Web applications, Environments configuration Files, Users, Mount points and Packages. Managed Ansible Playbooks with Ansibleroles. Used file module in Ansible playbook to copy and remove files on remote systems. Created inventory in Ansible for automating the continuous deployment and wrote playbooks using YAML scripting. Used Ansible for deployment to make easier by avoiding to write scripts. Implemented automated backup solutions for MongoDB replica sets using Ansible playbook and AWS S3 services. Implemented and designed AWS virtual servers byAnsibleroles to ensure deployment. Supported and developed tools for integration, automated testing and release management. Created web applications using JSON, REST mostly with the Atlassian Products like JIRA. Used Jira as ticket tracking and work flow tool. Reduced build and deployment times by designing and implementing Docker workflow. Responsible for build and deployment automation using VMWareESX, Docker containers, Vagrant and Chef. Created Dockerimages and deployed Docker containers for Tomcat Servers. Used chef to manage Web Applications, Configuration Files, Data Base, Commands, Users Mount Points and Packages. Managed Virtualization Environment usingVMWareESX, VMWareV Spere 4.x, Virtual Center, VI Client. Scaled the Jenkins cluster and took measures to improve the Performance of Jenkins. Used AGILE MVN method to develop a build and also MAVEN as a build tool. Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins CI tool on Linux machines. Used Hudson/Jenkins to perform automated Builds and Deployments. Developed Shell Scripts for automation purpose. Created and wrote shell scripts (Bash), Ruby, Python and PowerShell for automating tasks. Created and maintained thePythondeployment scripts for Web Sphere web application. Involved in Research of the project application architecture to support/resolve build, compile, and test issues/ problems. Worked on the Oracle databases in the backend to execute the DMLs and DDLs Releasing code to testing regions or staging areas according to the schedule published. Experience moving Java/J2EE applications and Databases into Cloud. Designed and developed the user interface for various tools and implemented VB.NETvalidation controls, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS for server and client side validations respectively. Hands on experience on security groups and network access control lists to enable inbound and outbound filtering at the instance level and subnet level. Environment: Java J2EE, Puppet, Ansible, RHEL 5/6, SVN, SCM, GIT, Jenkins, Build Forge, Maven, ANT, Apache Tomcat, Ruby, Python, VM ware, Scratch, Octopus, WCS, Jira, Docker, Oracle, Shell, Cloud computing, Open stack, Shell Scripts, Power Shell, JVM, AWS, Openstack. Confidential Build and Release Engineer Responsibilities: Documented all build and release process related items. Level one support for all the build and deploy issues encounter during the build process. Functioned as primary Linux administrator and systemsengineerto maintain system services and performance - Planned and executed Linux system changes and upgrades. Installed and configured all the Linux servers in the network as per specifications of clients. Monitored the servers and Linux scripts regularly and performed troubleshooting steps - Tested and installed the latest software on server for end-users. Performing Snapshots, Cloning, MigrationVMwareconvertor, Virtual Infrastructure client.. Worked closely with the Development Team in the design phase and developed use case diagrams using Rational Rose. Installed, configuring and administering Jenkins as Continuous Integration Server on Linux machines. Build scripts using ANT and MAVEN build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. Maintain and track inventory using Jenkins and set alerts when the servers are full and need attention. Configured Jenkins for Continuous Integration tools with plugins created jobs and automated most of the build related tasks. Used Maven and Ant scripts to build the source code. Supported and helped to create Dynamic Views and Snapshot views for end users. Converted and automated builds using Ant Scheduled automated nightly builds using Cruise Control. Created and maintained documentation of build and release processes and application configuration to comply with audit requirements and industry best practices. Analyze and create daily reports on the status of server backups on intranet and extranet. Provide complete phone support to customers. Setup and debug hard ware related issues for server builds. Perform by weekly build cycle and testing processes on Solaris. Coordinated with developers, Business Analyst and Mangers to make sure that code is deployed in the Production environment. Deployed JAVA/J2EE applications through WebLogic/WebSphere Application servers. Comfortable and flexible with installing, updating and configuring various flavors of UNIX and Windows. Environment: Java/J2ee, ClearCase, Eclipse, Ant, Maven, Hudson, Jenkins, WebSphere Application Server (WAS), CVS, Cruise Control, VM ware. Confidential Unix/Linux Administrator Responsibilities: Installation of Sun E250, E450, Sun E3000, SunFire v440/v480/v490 with Solaris 8/9. Upgraded/Migrated Solaris 7 to Solaris 8 on Sun servers and workstations. Configure Winbind on allLinuxworkstations, which enables all the Linuxusers to be authenticated on Microsoft Windows 2000 and 2003 Active Directory Server. Worked with DR tests ofUNIX(Solaris &Linux), Oracle, DB2 & Sybase databases, Peoplesoft/SAP, FOBOCA, Securities & Trading Apps and whole UNIX infrastructure. R1/R2 mappings, DNS/LAM changes. Used RPMs to install, update, verify, query and erase packages fromLinuxServers. Setup EMC HBA fiber cards and storage frames for DB2, Oracle and Sybase databases. Responsible for DNS and Configured DNS Servers and Clients, troubleshooting system and DNS issues. Worked with DBAs on installation of RDBMS database, restoration and log generation. Responsible for Day to Day Backup and Recovery using tar, using and ufsdump on solaris 8 & 9. Managed shared NFS files system, mounting and unmounting NFS server, NFS client on remote machine, sharing remote file folder, starting and stopping the NFS services. Managed Cluster of Linux Servers using GFS. Involved in disk configuration and disk crash recovery using format and fdisk. Bad spots on disk were repaired using repair and analyze. Created new slices, mounted new file systems and unmounted file systems. Implemented System policies and hardware profiles, hard disk configuration for fault tolerance, disk mirroring and back up the data using BACKUP devices. Validate daily tape backups. Assist in the migration of the backup infrastructure from Legato Networker to Symantec Backup Exec. User accounts management, developing kornshell scripts for various system performances monitoring purposes and troubleshooting. Installed and Configured Apache Web Server. Security measures blocking unnecessary ports and restricting user's remote logins. Configuration and troubleshooting - LAN and TCP/IP issues, Weblogic. Monitor bad user logins and unauthorized users, frequently changing the root password for security. Environment: Sun Solaris 9/8,Linux, BEA Web Logic 8.1, Apache web server, Sun E250, E450, Sun E3000, SunFire v440/v480/v490, Sun Sparc 20/10/5, Legato networker, ORACLE 9, C, EMC CLARION, Solstice Disksuite, Cisco switches & routers, VLAN, Winbin. Confidential Unix/Linux Administrator Responsibilities: Configuration and upgradation ofLinux, Solaris and AIX Operating Systems. Configuration of NIS, NFS, DNS, DHCP servers in Solaris, AIX andLinuxenvironment. Experience in user and group administration, management and archiving. Responsible for upgrades to RedHatLinuxwith Software packages, patches and maintained them in accordance with established policies, procedures and service level agreements. Experience in building Linux virtual servers by using VMware ESX 4. Responsible for configuring and maintaining global and local zones. Creating metadevices, soft partitions, mirroring, detaching and clearing the devices and metasets using Solaris volume management. Installation, configuration and management of Veritas Volume Manager & Veritas File System. Created disk groups, volumes with RAID architecture and layered volumes using VxVM. Performed automated installations of operating systems using Jumpstart for Solaris, and Kickstart forLinux. Managed Veritas Cluster Server, configured new service group & resources for new application in Veritas Cluster Server. Performance monitoring and performance tuning using top, prstat, vmstat, ps, iostat etc. Experience in writing scripts for automation of jobs. Performed Troubleshooting NFS, NIS, Samba, DNS, DHCP, LDAP, Mysql and network problems. Supported servers running various application and database including oracle RAC (Real Application Cluster). Experience in adding and configuring devices like hard disks and backup devices etc. Environment: LinuxRHEL 4/5/6, Solaris 8/9/10, SUSELinux10/11, HP-UX 11/11i, AIX 5.3L, Sun Enterprise Server, SunFire 6800/ E6500/ E4500 & E3500, Sun V440, V490, TSeries, MSeries, IBM RS/6000, pSeries Server. 