SUMMARY 10+ years of experience in Software Analysis, Design and Development of Client - Server, SOA, Web and.NET framework (4.5/ 4.0/3.5/2.0/1.0 ), ASP.NET ( 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0 /1.0 ), MVC 2, 3 & 4, XML, SQL database Server ( 2012/2008/2005/2000 ), C#, VB.net, HTML5, Web Services, CSS, Oracle SQL developer, JSON and XSL. Extensive experience in the design and development of N-tier Client Server application architecture using ASP.Net, MVC, Web API, WCF, EF, ADO.Net, C#, VB.Net, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery, Ajax, Angular JS, Bootstrap. Experience in Agile Scrum Methodology, TDD, OOAD. Diverse experience in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) especially in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deploying of applications. Expertise knowledge on Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Concepts including Inheritance, Abstraction, Encapsulation and Polymorphism. Developed Internet/Intranet based applications with ASP.NET, XML/HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XSL Stack (XSLT, XPATH, XSLT-FO), and Master pages, JQuery,, AngularJs and Kendo UI. Experience in writing unit tests using MS-Test, NUnit and QUnit. Experience upgrading classic ASP and .NET 1.1 applications, developing e-commerce applications. Experienced in utilizing the new integrated features of ASP.NET versions like Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) and expertise in Multithreading techniques for creating high performance applications, Good work experience with Windows Services. Proficient in building Web Services using SOAP Protocol and Expertise in consuming and publishing Web Services & Web Server Controls, Proficiency with developing Restful API Hands on experience in LINQ (Language Integrated Query) and Entity Framework by retrieving data from various data sources. Proficient in implementing connected and disconnected architectures of ADO.NET by using classes like DataAdapter, DataSet, DataReader etc. Written SQL Scripts, for creating database tables with foreign key relations in SQL Server 2008/2012 using T-SQL. Designed and developed several SQL Server Stored Procedures, User defined Functions, Triggers and Views for all the DML functionality of the application. Hands on experience in User Defined Functions, DTS, Transaction Management, T-SQL, Code optimization and performance. Have knowledge in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL server integration services (SSIS) and SQL server analysis services (SSAS) and strong knowledge of SQL server ETL development. Have ample of experience in developing Crystal Reports for report generation and integrate into .NET applications. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages:  C#.Net 4.5/4.0/3.0/2.0, VB.NET, C++, T-Sql, PL/SQL Web Technologies:  ASP.NET 4.0/3.5/2.0/1.0, MVC 2/3/4/5, Silverlight 5.0/4.0/3.0, ASP.Net Ajax 3.0/2.0, Javascript, VB Script, Jquery, JSON, Angular JS, Bootstrap Xml Technologies:  HTML5, XML, XAML, XDOCUMENT, XSL, XSLT IDE Tools:  Visual Studio 12/2010/2008/2005, Sql Server Management Studio, Oracle SQL Developer Databases:  MS SQL SERVER 2012/2008/2005/2000, Oracle 11g Software Methodologies:  SDLC, Agile, OOAD, DDD, TDD Reporting Tools:  SSIS, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Reports 1/10/9/8.5/8 Servers Windows 2008/2003/NT, Microsoft IIS (7.0/6.0/5.0/4.0 ) Middleware:  ADO.NET 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, Web Services, Enterprise Library 4.1/3.1 Source Control Tools: Visual SourceSafe (2008, 2005), Team Foundation Server (2010,2008), IBM Clear Case PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Senior .Net Consultant Responsibilities: Involved in Software Development Life Cycle like Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing. Developed application using Model View Controller (MVC) application framework. Creatingapplicationsusing VB.NET and enhancing projects for .NETapplications. Leveraged Routing in MVC to define custom routes thereby achieving clean URL's. Worked on Web API to build HTTP Services which return JSON data to the client. Created Interfaces in C# to communicate through the WCF services. Responsible for developing WCF Service for exchange of data between systems and implement business logic. Knowledge of calling Cross Domain WCF Service using JQuery. Used JQuery for client-side validations and AJAX for asynchronous execution of data. Implemented Telerik Controls like RadGrid, Scheduler, Data Grids, Calendar, Time Picker etc in web pages for an overall look and feel consistency. Used Entity Framework technology for querying, data retrieval, manipulation and data storage using LINQ. Worked on Entity Framework for performance gains via not constantly regenerating SQL. Developed LINQ queries using LINQ to Objects on top of ORM for querying memory objects like Datasets and Collections. Design dynamic reporting solutions using Report Viewer (SSRS) for Printing Created Technical Specification documents with UML diagrams like Activity Diagrams and State Diagrams for a better understanding of flow of module for future reference. Involved in writing AngularJs and Java script to perform client-side validation and to enhance UI of the application, worked with parsing xml data. Worked with Report/Process automation and solution development using C#, Excel Macro and VBA development. Worked on PROD defect fixes in .Net frame work 4.0/2.0/1.0 Configuring IIS 7 application server management and deployed .Net applications code in Dev, QA, UAT and PROD. Environment: .NET Framework 4.5.5, C#.Net, MVC 4.5, JQuery, JSON, SQL 2008, Agile/Scrum Software Methodology, Microsoft Unit-Test, TFS. Confidential SNR C# DEVELOPER Responsibilities: Designed Truckload quoting pricing tool for sales staff to quote and price carrier and customer clients using ASP.NET MVC 5, C#, Angular JS, JavaScript and JQuery. Created Technical Planning Process, architecture and ER Diagram for the development life cycle before starting the project to have a clear vision and understanding of the full SDLC life cycle of the project. Implemented Custom Validation code to test the UI controls as per the business requirements. Wrote optimized stored procedure to load Geo lookup data and auto-complete the search control. Designed controls to dynamically add intermediate stop and update miles using AJAX controls using JQuery and JavaScript. Designed and developed summary view to display a rate chart index using ASP.NET MVC 5 to help sales in quoting the customers precisely. Effectively designed and developed optimized business solution for pricing rule which can be dynamically update, add or delete the rules without major application change helping in the effective SDLC process. Designed and developed Rule index matrix using C#. Created business solution for Load to truck ratio for origin, destination and equipment category. Extensive use of LINQ and Entity Framework to develop data layer. Design, Testing, Development and comfortable leading agile team and mentoring Jr. Developers. Created new database Truck Load Market pricing database to save truck load rating index information using objects like Store Procedures, Functions, Indexes and Views using T-SQL in Development and Production environment for SQL Server. Developed SSRS reports to analyze and enhance market pricing information. Consumed external service providers for payment such as PayPal and Stripe. Effectively designed and developed optimized business solution for pricing rule which can be dynamically update, add or delete the rules without major application change helping in the effective SDLC process. Developed and consumed external service providers for payment such as PayPal. Responsible for designing the ASP.NET application authentication using the .NET Framework, Model View Controller (MVC) and IIS security models. Create App fabric caching to cache the SCI market data which can help in application and data performance enhancement. Implemented and developed process and architecture to deploy and test application packages using PowerShell scripts and automate the process. Responsible for maintaining versions of source code using SVN subversion. Environment: C#.Net, ASP.Net, ADO.Net Entity Framework 6.0, MVC 5.0, Microsoft Visual Studio 2012, JQuery, AJAX, LINQ, SQL Server 2012, Web forms, HTML, XML, Event Logs, Visio and Windows XP Professional, WCF Confidential Senior .NET Developer Responsibilities: Created Some HTML Helpers for custom controls and had used partial views for AJAX functionality. Created some custom validators for control specific validation. Involved in writing JQuery, Angular Js, Bootstrap and Java script to perform client-side validation and to enhance UI of the application used Kendo UI. Written JSON scripts to consume WCF service to display required information on the web application. C#, ASP.NET MVC, ADO.NET, LINQ using this Created and maintained extensive real-time Validation of data with elements of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Written and altered SQL queries, store procedure and functions to pull data and report from the database. Encrypted connection strings in Web.config files. Created and modified Layout, Web Forms, HTML5, XML, CSS and XSL Stack (XSLT, XPATH, and XSLT-FO) according to business requests. Developing Multi-tier applications with use of Web Services using Asp.Net Web API Applying Multithreading techniques for creating high performance applications. Developed various modules of presentation layer of the Application in ASP.NET MVC using C#, AJAX tool Kit, WPF and Silver light. Developed complex stored procedures using joins which run upon multiple data sources like SQL Server using linked servers Maintained common formatting across the application pages, using CSS, Validated the UI modules using JavaScript Deployed the application on Test, Systems, Staging and Production environment Used Crystal Reports for report generation and integrate into .NET applications. Environment: .NET Framework 2.0,3.5 and 4.0, MVC 3,4 SQL Server 2012,ASP.NET 1.1/2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0, C#.net, ADO.NET, Visual Studio 13/2010/2008, WCF, IIS 7, Ajax JScript, jQuery, JSON, Linq, Silver light, Crystal Reports,TFS, TDD, COM+, Agile/Scrum Software Methodology, SharePoint and SVN. Confidential SYSTEMS ANALYST/DEVELOPER Responsibilities: Designed and developed different modules, classes using C# and designed GUI part with help of .Net framework 3.0 Extensively worked on developing the complete web application to serve all the applications for their different flows. Used ASP.NET web controls and HTML control in the design of web pages. Designed, modeled multi-threaded, enterprise n-tier software agent using WCF web service in 3.0 framework. Designed WCF service contract for validating the user input. Extensively used ASP.NET web server controls like Grid View for displaying the records. Experienced in developing and consuming Web Services and n-tier web applications. Used JSON, JQuery for the Client side to pass the parameters for hand shake across applications and for client-side AJAX call, validations. Used ADO.NET for data interaction between the web application and the Database using Data reader, Datasets, and Data Adapters controls. Used JavaScript and ASP.NET for AJAX implementation and client-side validations. Used TFS for Versioning control and configuration management Followed agile methodology to develop the application. Involved in setting up and developing application onto SIT, Staging and Production environments. Environment: .Net Framework 4.0, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Silverlight, WCF, MVC 3, XHTML, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, XSL, XSLT, XAML, T-SQL, SQL Server 2008, LINQ, Entity-Framework, SSRS, Oracle 11g, TOAD, PL/SQL, Telerik Controls, JSON, Visual Source Safe 6.0, LINQ, Test Directory, MS Excel, TFS, IIS(6.0), NUnit Confidential - New York City .NET Developer Responsibilities: Involved in all the phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SLDC). Performed functional requirement analysis and was involved in system design based on n-tier architecture. Re-written the parts of existing application modules for performance and implemented the reusability. Involved in the development of Business Logic Layer and Data Access Layer in C#. Created classes and modules in C# using Visual Studio. Developed the Front End using ASP.NET and Code behind using C#.NET. Used features like Dataset, Data Reader and Data Adapter to develop a Data Access Layer using ADO.NET. Involved in Database design. Written and used Stored Procedures and Triggers using T-SQL in SQL Server 2005. Wrote Windows services for job scheduling of auto e-mail notifications. Worked on the Calendar Control to display the scheduled transfers. Created .NET Crystal Reports for statistical analysis of usage of the system, which can be accessed as web report as well as in PDF format using acrobat reader. Used Windows Services to trigger the scheduled transfers. Used Custom Validations Controls with JavaScript for client-side validations Environment: C#.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, HTML, Java Script, SQL Server 2005, T-SQL, Crystal Reports, XML, IIS 5.0, Visio, Visual Source Safe, Windows 2003. 