SUMMARY Installation, configuration and maintenance of Linux servers (Red Hat 5 & 6, and CentOS, Scientific Linux) and supported applications WebLogic, SAS, MATLAB, and R - Module using customer/vendor’s documentation. Providing support to development, test, and production teams with troubleshooting issues Documenting all tickets in a tracking system using HP ALM Manage, track and report assigned tickets daily Knowledge of configuration and auto deployment tools using Ansible Knowledge of patching via Tanium tool Install, configure and maintain/manage Splunk Knowledge of security policies, requirements, and vulnerabilities Disk configuration & File Systems Management Provides support for U.S Census Bureau UNIX/LINUX management branch operating environments Created and Managed File Systems with LVM Provides change management and UNIX/LINUX administrative support for various U.S Census applications User management, Creating and managing user account, groups and access levels Monitoring System Performance of Virtual memory, Managing Swap Space, Disk utilization and CPU utilization Systems Security Administration and User administration using Role Based Access Control; Sudoers Works on IBM blade Servers; HS21-XM Blade Server Experience with firmware updates which reduces ROM size requirements Controlling the System Logging services, and examining system Log Files Monthly Patch {automation} Working knowledge of Ansible (configuration management systems) Setting up NFS and Client on a Linux Servers Disc configuration on Linux OS. Install and support ansible Works with puppet, and GIT Repository. Experience with Cloud technologies such as AWS, VMware etc. Works with network tools such as iptables, Linux, HAProxy Familiar with with load balancing Support Splunk/Trend Micro Deep Security Support Tanium app Experience installing, configuring and maintaining services such as Apache, MySQL, MariaDB, NGINX, etc Provides and remediates Linux vulnerability using Risk Management Framework (RFM) implemented by the Federal Information Security Management Act - FISMA Provides patch management, incident and change management via Remedy to track work flow TECHNICAL SKILLS SAO Applications: Java, Red Hat 5 & 6, 7, and CentOS, Scientific Linux, WebLogic, SAS, MATLAB, and R-Module, Argus, Bacula, Nagios, IBM Business Service Management (BSM) Computer Skills:  Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft PowerPoint 2010, Microsoft Office Excel 2010, Word Perfect X3, Microsoft Access 2010, Microsoft Office Suite Professional, Microsoft Office Publisher 2007, Typing wpm 65. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Boca Raton Systems Engineer Responsibilities: Installation, configuration and maintenance of Linux servers (Red Hat 5 & 6, and CentOS, Scientific Linux) and supported applications WebLogic, SAS, MATLAB, and R-Module using customer/vendor’s documentation. Assigning of work daily via ticketing system queues Change Control Management (ITIL Based) Experience with Atlassian tools such as JIRA, Confluence, and BitBucket Coaching and growing less senior engineers Acting as technical and managerial escalation points for NOC, HelpDesk, and Systems Team Provide on call rotation Monitoring ticket queues for change control, incidents, and requests Technical project management Working directly with clients on specific projects and/or escalations Planning hardware refresh and maintenance where necessary Install and configure Icinga monitoring tool Understand the use of Jira ticketing and Confluence Setting up NFS and Client on a Linux Servers Confidential System Engineer Responsibilities: Installation, configuration and maintenance of Linux servers (Red Hat 5 & 6, and CentOS, Scientific Linux) and supported applications WebLogic, SAS, MATLAB, and R-Module using customer/vendor’s documentation. Providing support to development, test, and production teams with troubleshooting issues Documenting all tickets in a tracking system using HP ALM Manage, track and report assigned tickets daily Knowledge of configuration and auto deployment tools using Ansible Knowledge of patching via Tanium tool Install, configure and maintain/manage Splunk Knowledge of security policies, requirements, and vulnerabilities Support provisioning virtual machines, virtual networks, VDI instances, laptops, printers and other related hardware Install, configure Splunk and uses it to monitor infrastructure. Experience with VMware ESXi and vCenter Knowledge of desktop virtualization software, Oracle databases and directory services such as Microsoft Active Directory. Setting up NFS and Client on a Linux Servers Worked with Sun Solaris server from home lab Maintain Wiki pages, documenting procedures and Knowledge Base Instructions (KBI) Experience in performing system admin functions to include but not limited to: Drive space monitoring Monitoring application logs Patch support Routine maintenance Confidential, Bowie, MD Linux Systems Administrator Responsibilities: Installation, configuration and maintenance of Linux servers (Red Hat 5 & 6, and CentOS, Scientific Linux) and supported applications WebLogic, SAS, MATLAB, and R-Module using customer/vendor’s documentation. Manage +3500 physical & virtual servers in 24 hours’ production environment Assisted the Solaris team to patch Solaris server Disk configuration & File Systems Management Provides support for U.S Census Bureau UNIX/LINUX management branch operating environments Created and Managed File Systems with LVM Provides change management and UNIX/LINUX administrative support for various U.S Census applications User management, Creating and managing user account, groups and access levels Monitoring System Performance of Virtual memory, Managing Swap Space, Disk utilization and CPU utilization Systems Security Administration and User administration using Role Based Access Control; Sudoers Works on IBM blade Servers; HS21-XM Blade Server Works on DELL 1950 Poweredge Server Experience with firmware updates which reduces ROM size requirements Provide system and log analysis, performance tuning and monitoring to ensure security for all UNIX/Linux Web and Application servers. Controlling the System Logging services, and examining system Log Files Monthly Patch {automation} Working knowledge of Ansible (configuration management systems) Setting up NFS and Client on a Linux Servers Provide on call after hours support for escalated problems and conducted bridge calls with Tier III support Provides daily administration of user requests for services and customizations to the System Management system... Provides and remediates Linux vulnerability using Risk Management Framework (RFM) implemented by the Federal Information Security Management Act - FISMA Provides patch management, incident and change management via Remedy to track work flow Install and update various packages using yum;Install security fixes, kernel and OS patches via BSM tool Minimize server downtime Perform configuration management in coordination with security guidelines Monitor system performance using top, sar, iotop, iostat to ensure production jobs completed Coordinate Incident Management activities Provide on call after hours support for escalated problems using DVI for remote login Support the project through the Remedy ticketing system to meet service level agreements Install startup scripts for various applications Maintain Wiki pages, documenting procedures and Knowledge Base Instructions (KBI) Working knowledge of VMware vCenter Server and AWS Environment Minimized server downtime Requires availability to provide technical support on a 24x7 basis during periodic rotating on-call shifts, including after hours, nights and weekends, and during emergencies. Deploy, administer and manage the migration and integration of the selected replacement product when the current product reaches end of life.. Opens trouble tickets with IBM and coordinate with the technicians to resolve hardware issues; installs configure computer, software, hardware, and network communications, troubleshoots and resolves hardware, software, and network problems. Installs and manages Weblogic Servers Working knowledge of KVM Confidential, Rockville, MD Linux Systems Administrator Responsibilities: Configured, managed, and maintained a Linux, Apache, server environment supporting a high volume e-commerce site. Monitored performance and resource utilization of physical servers, virtual servers, storage, etc. Identified resource and performance issues; created and implemented recommendations to resolve those issues. Performed basic System Administration functions including: hardware installation, OS installation, OS configuration, Driver updates, Firmware updates, and Patch installation. Compiled, configured monitored and tuned an Apache web server installation. Worked closely with 3rd party hosting providers and managed Security of the Operating Systems. Developed documentation on system administration processes and procedures. Assisted in educating others in the IT Department as well as End-users. Managed VMware environment . Install and remove virtual discs. Disc configuration on Linux OS. Installed Solaris on virtualbox personally Complied and enforced established security standards to satisfy federal requirements. Complied with the established computing controls in order to satisfy Sarbanes-Oxley requirements. Provides and remediates Linux vulnerability using Risk Management Framework (RFM) implemented by the Federal Information Security Management Act - FISMA Provides patch management, incident and change management via Remedy to track work flow Confidential, Rockville, MD Administrative Specialist /Help Desk Responsibilities: Provided tier-1/tier-2 help desk support for a variety of enterprise and local applications. Supported frequently requires troubleshot and researched into reports, processes, interfaces and data structures, both delivered and customized. Participated in many other aspects of the software development lifecycle: requirements generation, design, code, verification and test, and maintenance, as well as overall integration of software modules and other subsystem components, both commercial and custom. Performed daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware and software. Performed Database Server configuration and maintenance (Oracle). Controlled user access to critical systems by creating/deleting user accounts as needed. Worked with IT and Engineering teams to facilitate, manage and execute any special IT requirements. Maintained and monitored all security systems and components relating to critical systems including control systems. Troubleshot hardware and/or software applications malfunctions and errors. Installed and supported personal computers, and network operations. Assisted and supported other team members in resolving any operation issues that impact client.  Confidential, Hyattsville, MD Administrative Specialist Responsibilities: Reviewed records and obtained pertinent information about a designated area of operation and recorded specific action concerning aspects of program operations that deviate from Federal requirements. Participated with decision-makers in setting organizational goals and objectives. Established, maintained and monitored integrated reporting systems for assigned programs and communicated information to management for the effective evaluation of program operations and performance. Organized meetings to include coordinating meeting rooms, creating schedules, contacting and updating attendees and briefers. Maintained a high level of knowledge on the organizations inspection program conducted at each of the facilities annually, creating reports of findings and outcomes, Performed a wide range of administrative duties to support disaster operations. Assisted with the development and analysis of the regions administrative procedures, operations, and policies, and identifies areas in need of revision or improvement. Coordinated the electronic submission of bi-weekly Time and Attendance (T&A) data. Provided interpretations of Human Resources regulations and procedures. Served as a technical resource liaison on staffing and recruitment, position management, and benefits to staff. Assisted with the completion of documentation for newly hired.