OBJECTIVE Intend to develop innovative and pragmatic approach to analyzing complex business needs, enabling me willing to work as a key player in challenging Enterprise environments and providing solutions based on the latest virtualization, storage, and cloud technologies. SUMMARY Experience with Virtualization technologies in Installing, Configuring and administering VMware ESX/ESXi 4.0/4.1/ 5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0 /6.5 Enterprise and created and managed VMs (virtual machines) and also involved in the maintenance of the vCenter Server 5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0 Enterprise. Experience with Windows 2008/2012R2/2016 Servers (Enterprise Environment) in Installing, Configuring and administering. Experience in Active Directory, GPOs, DNS, DHCP, File &Print Server, IIS 8 (Web Server), 5.1/6.0/7,7.5/8.0/8.5 FTP, Terminal Server, RIS, RRAS, NAT, WSUS, Microsoft Clustering, Exchange Mail Server and ISA Server Experience in working with Microsoft Exchange, LYNC in migration of Exchange 2010 to Exchange 2013. Responsible production support of Active directory (AD), GPO, GPP, Domain users, Users and groups and given appropriate permissions, shares and privilege to access LAN and Domain environment. Good Knowledge of Azure and AWS. Implementation of View 5.0, View 4.5, Desktop Virtualization View 4.6, VDI on Cisco UCS. Extensive understanding of networking concepts, (IE. Configuration of networks, TCP/IP, VPN, VLANs, and routing in LAN/WAN, Ethernet Port, Patch Panel virtual networking, wireless networks & Cloud computing concepts) Experience in VMware vCloud suite, specifically vCO and vRA (vCAC). Experience in managing multiple Windows systems with Microsoft SCCM & SCOM 2007/2010/2012 providing patch management, remote control, software distribution and OS deployment. Executed the plan and implemented by using ITSM management principle. Hands on Experience in building web application projects using Cold Fusion 8.0, 9.0, SQL Server 7.0 and Cold Fusion Application Server. Experience in using Visual Studio 2008/2010, ASP.NET, SQL Server and Utilized a Web services layer in between the ASP.NET pages and the SQL Server stored procedures. Strong understanding of VMware Networking concepts like creation of vSwitches, different types of port groups, NIC Teaming and VLAN Problem management on VMware ESX 4.X and Virtual Center and vMotion. Experience in enhancing and creating several workflows, document management and insurance related applications using XML, JavaScript. Knowledge on iSCSI SAN, NAS, NFS storage and RAID concept. TECHNICAL SKILLS VMware: VMware vSphere 4.0/4.1/5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0 , vCenter Server 4.0/4.1/ 5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0 /6.5 ESX 3.5/ 4.0/4.1/ 5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0 /6.5, VMware Update Manager, HA, DRS, FT, vMotion, Storage vMotion, VMware Capacity Planner, VMware Workstation Windows Administration: Configuration of DHCP and DNS, installation and configuration of VPN client, Windows Server 2003/2008R2/2012, installation and configuration of Active Directory creating users and groups, WSUS, setting user access controls, domains creation and setup. Microsoft Exchange, LYNC, Office 365, IIS, SCCM & SCOM 2007/2010/2012. AZURE,AWS. Networking: OSI Reference Model, IP switch FTPIPv4 and IPv6 addressing and subnetting, Ethernet LAN, TCP/IP, UDP, switches, routing concepts, virtual network concepts including vSwitches, VLANs, dvSwitch, TCP/IP stack for virtualization, configuration of printers. Hardware: HP ProLiant DL380 G5/G6 Intel Xeon, HP ProLiant DL385 G6/G7 AMD Opteron, Dell PowerEdge 2850, 2950, R710, HP BL 460c G5/G6 blade servers, C7000 HP Chassis.NetApp V6000 Series. Operating Systems: Windows Server NT 4.0/2000/2003/2008 R2/2012, Windows XP/Vista/7/10, Linux & Centos, Apple Mac OS. Languages: C, C++, Python, VBScript, SQL, Bash, HTML, XML, JavaScript, ASP.Net PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Berwyn, PA Systems Engineer Responsibilities: Engage and Service internal customers via SCSM ticketing. Ensure all the Server fleet are in Regulation with Patching, upgrade and Security. Provide production support on call support of Server Supporting business client Issues. Experience working in Azure Environment and deploying packages in Cloud. Administering and monitoring Patch management tools like WSUS, SCCM. Deployment of web Applications from TFS server to production server. Experience Working on SCCM (using OSD and MDT) and WSUS for Windows 10 Desktop Patches Deployment, Imaging and Patch management. Deploying new code of web services for DEV/UAT/PROD servers. Experience working on Storage Solutions( NETApp). Experience in working Citrix XenDesktop, Citrix Receiver Environment . Administered SCCM Deployment Packages, Applications (MSI) over 1000 workstations and users. Expertise in PowerShell scripting and automating task sequence, packages. Confidential, Bowie, Maryland Systems Admin Responsibilities: Worked in Infrastructure Datacenter Operations Team with an Environment of 2500 Servers with more than 2000 users WIN 2003/2008/2008 R2/2012/2012R2/2016, SQL 2008/2012 Server, vSphere 5.5/6.0 Resolving at least 20 Tickets per day pertaining To Infrastructure Datacenter Operations Team using IBSM Ticketing System. Expertise in Setting up DEV/UAT/PROD IIS 8/8.5/10 webservers in Enterprise Environment (Configuring of applications in webconfig and deploying of websites. Setting up Internal and External DMZ Portal PROD IIS web servers. (Pre - requisite settings compatible for application working, configuring of applications in web config & tuning up web server settings. Experience working with Project management and also ITIL Certified. Using PowerShell Scripts to automate processes pertaining to installing software on Windows desktops 7 & Windows 10, 2008R/2012R2 servers. Worked on SCCM (using OSD and MDT) and WSUS for Windows 10 Desktop Patches Deployment, Imaging and Patch management. Experience in Rasing Certificate Request CSRs to the AD PKI team for Internal CA SSL Certs. Installed SSL Certificates in websites. Setting up WCF Services and deploying Java UDeploy services on TEST/PROD servers. Experience in working ADFS Environment, adding admin rights and restricting rights to User Involved in live migration of Virtual Machines and Virtual machines files using the vMotion and Storage vMotion. Administered SCCM Deployment Packages, Applications (MSI) over 4500 workstations and users. Experience in working with Microsoft SharePoint, Microsoft Exchange, Office 365, and LYNC in migration of Office 365, Exchange 2010 to Exchange 2013. Experiencing in Building & managing server builds and Citrix Xen App & Xen Desktop applications installations. Responsible for Supporting all Windows Server, workstations patching related fixes. Administering and monitoring Patch management tools like WSUS, SCCM and Shavlik. Patching workstations for the different environments through SCCM & Shavlik. Experience working in Azure PaaS and IaaS Environments. Created RHEL and Windows Virtual Machines as per the business requirements. Experience in Building and Troubleshooting Microsoft App-V virtual applications. Developed organizational units in Active Directory (AD) management and managed user security with group policies. Involved in DCO-ON Call Production Support 24*7 for all Production Environment. Working daily with .Net and Java teams (Debug/Fix issues of any code deployment) Installing and configuring webservers (IIS), Tomcat on DEV, UAT, PROD boxes and managing it. Deploying new code of web services for DEV/UAT/PROD servers. Set up applications, creating SFTP Folders and users on LINUX boxes on DEV/UAT/PROD boxes. Opening ports for DEV/TEST boxes & Involved in granting & restricting access for developers, users. Experience using the Microsoft Windows PowerShell scripting engine to automate tasks with SCOM. Proficiency in using VMware vSphere CLI and VMware vSphere PowerCLI to script and automate builds and changes to environment. Performed cross platform audits of Active Directory (AD) security groups, objects and user permissions. Experience in working In Vulnerability Patch Management Team using security regulatory methods to remediate vulnerabilities. Experience in designing and managing Hyper V Environment. Experience working on VMware Horizon View and also on 500 VMware VDI workstations. Ensure all the Servers are in compliance with Windows Patching, upgrade & Security. DEV\UAT\PROD servers robust patching through Shavlik patching tool. Experience in Setting up Citrix Environment. Facilitating and documenting of Vulnerability remediation using Nexpose scanning tool. Collaborate with management, security and technical teams on Vulnerability fix issues. Setting up and adding Servers in Solar winds, SCOM for monitor. Experience in NetBackup, Adding Servers in EMC Avamar. Confidential, Indianapolis, Indiana Windows Admin Responsibilities: Expertise in Setting up Test, Prod IIS 8 webservers in Enterprise Environment (Configuring of applications in webconfig and deploying of websites. Managed Group Policy Objects (GPOs) throughout the Active Directory (AD) enterprise Hands on experience dealing with security updates, patches, hot fixes and also by using WSUS, SCCM on Windows 7 & Windows 10 Desktops. Experience in working with Microsoft Exchange, LYNC, office 365 in updating new versions. Expertise in Backup and migration of SQL 2008 data to SQL 2012 Server in Enterprise Environment. Experience in Installing SSL Certificates from the 3rd party SSL Cert providers on IIS Webserver sites. Experience in Migrating SSL Certificates from IIS 7.5 Webserver to IIS 8.0 Webservers. Manage and coordinate a team of Windows and Microsoft SCCM engineers to aid in support of the projects and current needs of the environment. Experience in maintaining and Troubleshoot issues related to Identity and Access Management (IAM) Centrify authentication and authorization procedures. Integration of 2 factor authentication for Citrix environment (RSA, and Symantec VIP). Familiarity with Juniper Netscreen firewall, Tivoli, MRTG/Cacti or other SNMP management tools. Created and deployed custom scripts to be used in upgrade and deployment of software through GPO and SCCM. Hands on experience of Visual Studio 2008/2010, ASP.NET, SQL Server and Utilized a Web services layer in between the ASP.NET pages and the SQL Server stored procedures. Experience with Virtualization technologies in Installing, Configuring and administering VMware ESX/ESXi /5.0/5.1/5.5 Enterprise and created and managed VMs (virtual machines) and also involved in the maintenance of the vCenter Server 5.0/5.1/5.5 Enterprise. Helped in Maintaining and providing Support for SCOM. Expertise in Setting up and synchronization of WSUS with SCCM for patching maintenance. Experience in Creating, restricting of users in Microsoft Active Directory tools (LDAP). Experienced in virtualization technology using Hyper-V 2012R2 and managing Physical and Virtual Server/ failover clustering. Experience in working with Microsoft SharePoint, Microsoft Exchange, Office 365, and LYNC in migration of Office 365, Exchange 2010 to Exchange 2013. Hands on experience to deal critical issues and prepare Root Cause Analysis (RCA). Helped in documentation with fellow engineer for preparation of migrations using (P2V, V2V). Extensive understanding of networking concepts, (IE. Configuration of networks, TCP/IP, VPN, VLANs, and routing in LAN/WAN, Ethernet Port, Patch Panel virtual networking, wireless networks & Cloud Computing. Extensive experience on call support relating from VMware component issues (Orchestrator, operations manager, converter). Experience using scripting languages (PowerCLI, Vb, PowerShell, sphere CLI shell & bash). Working daily with .Net and Java teams (Debug/Fix issues of any code deployment) Installing and configuring webservers (IIS), Tomcat on DEV, TEST, PROD boxes and managing it. Deploying new code of web services for DEV/TEST/PROD servers. Set up applications, creating SFTP Folders and users on UNIX boxes on DEV/TEST/PROD boxes. Opening ports for DEV/TEST boxes & Involved in granting & restricting access for developers, users. Troubleshooting and tuning up SMTP, SNMP server issues. Confidential, Saint Paul, Minnesota Windows Admin Responsibilities: Experience in Setup of SCCM deployment Patches of Windows 7 & Windows 10 desktops. Extensive Migrating OHE IIS websites, SSL Certificates and content from a Windows 2008R2 to 2012 Windows Server. Experience in managing multiple Windows systems with Microsoft SCCM 2010/2012 providing patch management, remote control, software distribution and OS deployment. Hands on with vCenter Server 5.0/5.1/5.5 managing with multiple ESXi Servers, Build and troubleshooting experience with ESX Servers and ESXi Servers, vSphere and vCenter manager. Experience using scripting languages (PowerCLI, Vb, PowerShell, sphere CLI shell & bash). Administered DNS, DHCP and WINS & Created user ID's, roles, groups OU's etc. Maintaining documentation for Citrix and application installs. Experience in working with Microsoft Exchange, LYNC,office 365 in updating new versions Configured Adobe Cold Fusion 11 application server and IIS 8.0 webserver. Experienced in Migrating IIS 7.5 web server Configuration to IIS 8.0 web server. Experience in installing IP switch FTP server and configuring IP switch FTP setup. Migrated Post gre sql databases from win 2008R2 to win 2012 standard server. Installing and configuring Firewall PORT80 server defender for IIS web server. Confidential, Frisco, Texas VMware/Windows Administrator Responsibilities: Design and implementation of Datacenters and installing the Hardware of HP proliant, Dell Power Edge and Cisco UCS Blade servers. Expertise in the area of Virtualization with vSphere 5.0/5.1/5.5,6.0 VMware ESXi 5.0/5.1/5.5,6.0 and Virtual Center server 5.5 & 6.0 Enterprise. Installed and managed ADFS (Active Directory Federation services) Office 365 single sign-on authentication federation. Expertise in Reviewing and updating SCOM console security, apply patches, create SCOM console roles and reviews, and create and install custom Management Packs (MP) Experience in maintaining support of Hyper-V and creating new VM’s. Created and implemented upgrade strategies for the current environment with specific attention to Microsoft SCCM, GPO, and WSUS in an Environment. Experience with handling issues related to Microsoft Lync, Office 365, Exchange servers. Implementing Active Directory Services, maintaining Replication, Trust Relationship and enforcing Domain wide Group Policies. Experience in managing multiple Windows systems with Microsoft SCCM 2007/2010/2012 providing patch management, remote control, software distribution and OS deployment. Deployment and configuration of Domain Controller, Active Directory, OU, GPO. Experience in Writing, Maintaining & troubleshooting scripts written both in MS Power Shell,Shell,Vb,XML, Python script for build & operations environment to develop/test/implement automation tools Experience in installing ESXi, VMware vCenter Server and creation of folders, Datacenter and VMware clusters using enhanced features like HA and DRS. Administrating production servers/network infrastructure that includes Windows administration of Domain Controllers, SQL Servers,IIS Web Servers (HTTP/S, FTP and SMTP), MS SharePoint, MS Office 2007/2010, Exchange 2010 Mail Servers, NAS, File and print Servers and Terminal Servers on Windows 2003/2008. Extensive knowledge and hands on experience in P2V and V2V migration of 1500 Virtual Machines using VMware Converter, Double take and Plate spin tools. Installing, configuring VDI instances using PCOIP protocol and creating floating and dedicated desktops and troubleshooting the instances. Confidential - New Providence, NJ Systems Engineer Responsibilities: Installing and Managing ESX and ESXi servers on HP, DELL and Installation of vCenter Server, vCenter Components and upgrading VMware Tools. Planning, managing and Installation of VMware ESX 5.0 /5.1/5.5 server, Installation and configuration of virtual center database and installation of VMware infrastructure virtual machine. Management and integration of ESX server, create a new storage space, creation of VMFS data store, Configuration networking for the virtual machines. Experience in Configuring Hyper-V and replicating Hyper-V VM’s. P2V, V2V conversions of Windows 2012 and Windows 2008 servers using Enterprise Converter. Validated configuration standards for Active Directory domain controllers for directory security. Planning, configuration, maintenance and administration of VMware ESX server, VMware virtual center, V-Motion, Storage Motion, HA and DRS, P2V, V2V and Troubleshooting. Experienced in Windows Server & SQL Administration, Active directory, Exchange server 2003/2007 Knowledge and experience on applying patches to windows servers using SCCM where the SCCM pulls the updates from WSUS and controlling the installation of updates to the required servers by following the organization standards. Migration of Active Directory from windows server 2003 R2 to 2008 R2.. Experience in enhancing and creating several workflows, document management and insurance related applications using XML, JavaScript. Performed troubleshooting of DNS, DHCP, IIS and Active directory and maintained Web Servers by installing IIS 6, FTP Sites and creating Virtual Directories in IIS 6. Plan and schedule OS upgrades & firmware upgrades. Administration and managing VMware server (ESX 5.0 & 5.1) on production level. Performing Snapshots, Cloning, Migration VM ware convertor, Virtual Infrastructure client. Performing VMware crash/error analysis, Root cause Analysis, Coordinate Post Problem Analysis and Trend Analysis. Installation & configuration Of Hp Blade servers, HP Proliant BL-460c G7, and Network load balancing Confidential Windows Admin / VMware Engineer Responsibilities: Administered VMware environment, evaluated & implemented new hardware & software solutions that benefited architecture & operations. Implemented VMware SRM & troubleshooting performance issues. Analyzing and implementing OS patches and hot fixes as well as other OS configurations and updates using Blade Logic Patch Management tool. Played a Key role in Managing, Installing, and Supporting Windows 2003/2008 Servers, and VMware ESX Servers 4.0/4.1. Maintained vCenter Server 4.1 & implemented View Desktop Infrastructure. Configured and maintained Microsoft Active Directory Federation Services. (ADFS) Installed and upgraded Cold Fusion application 8.0, 9.0. Building ESXi 4.0/5.0 Hosts and maintain those ESXi servers through vSphere Client. Experience in Set up Client environments and created connections in Cold Fusion Admin Server. Performed troubleshooting of DNS, DHCP, IIS and Active directory and maintained Web Servers by installing IIS 6, FTP Sites and creating Virtual Directories in IIS 6. Design and implementation of vCops for of capacity planning to monitor and build new clusters, ESXi and increase storage lun’s as per the needs. Configured HA, DRS clusters, FT for important VM’s. Capacity planning using vCops and VMware guided consolidation for gathering the physical machines CPU and Memory usage metrics. Used tools such as VMware Converter, PlateSpin, and Veeam FastSCP to work on ESXi Environment for the P2V conversions. Design and implementation of standard switches and maintaining the redundancy level for ESX network created different ports groups for different networks like VMnetwork, Vmotion/VMkernel, Management and Storage networks.. Customized layer 2 & layer 3 networking between VMware, networking components & storage for high availability & maximum performance. Performing migration of VM’s from Host to host and between Lun’s using vMotion and Storage vMotion. Identified & fixed ESX performance bottlenecks by working with clients & other teams and configured NFS server to share resources across multiple servers. Created Snapshots according to user’s requests and requirement. Presenting FC SAN LUN’s, RDM’s iSCSI LUN’s and NFS mounts. Implementation of Active Directory infrastructure and Network fundamentals, protocols (such as TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS), Group Policy and Profile Management.