SUMMARY Over 8 years of experience in IT industry. Extensive experience includes SCM, DevOps Build/Release Management, Change/Incident Management and Cloud Management. Experienced in Chef, Puppet and Ansible for Deployment on Multiple platforms. Build and Continuous Integration with like Ant/Ivy, Maven, Jenkins/Hudson, Bamboo, Gradle, and Teamcity. Experience with Version Control Systems like GIT, CVS, SVN (Subversion), ACCUREV, Perforce, and IBM Rational Team Concert. Experience in Configuration Automation and Centralized Management with Ansible, and Implemented Ansible to manage all existing servers and automate the build/configuration of new servers. Extensive experience using MAVEN and ANT as a Build Tool for the building of deployable artifacts (war & ear) from source code. Expert in deploying the code trough web application servers like WebSphere/WebLogic/Apache Tomcat/ JBOSS. Experience using cloud providers and API’s for Amazon (AWS) Ec2, S3, VPC, SNS and AMI with Cloud Sigma (EU) and GFS storage. Experience of working with AZURE monitoring, Data Factory, Traffic Manager, service bus and key vault. Experience in using containerization and container management tools like Docker, Docker Compose and Kubernetes, for Orchestration, deploying the services related to the Containers and with container - based deployments using Docker. Experience in Blue/Green deployment strategy by creating new applications which are identical to the existing production environment using automation frameworks such as OpenStack, Cloud Formation and Terraform. Expertise in virtualization of servers using Docker, worked with Docker Engine and Docker Machine, to deploy the micro services-oriented environments, and configuration automation using Docker containers. Experience in Installing Firmware Upgrades, kernel patches, systems configuration, performance tuning on Unix/Linux systems. Experience working with Puppet Enterprise and Puppet Open Source. Hands on experience on AZURE storage, SQL AZURE, Microsoft AZURE cloud services, storage accounts and virtual networks. Managed AD and IAM roles using IAC for both AWS and AZURE. Experienced with Amazon AWS Cloud Administration which includes services like: EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, OPS Work, Security Groups. Experienced in implementing and maintaining an Apache Tomcat /MySQL/PHP, LDAP, LAMP web service environment. Exposed to all aspects of software development life cycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Planning, Developing, Testing and Implementing and Post-production analysis of the projects. Independent problem solving and a good team player with strong interpersonal and communication skills. Configured servers to host Team Foundation Server (TFS) instance, build controllers and build agents. Worked with AWS Cloud formation templates and Terraform along with Ansible. Good Interpersonal Skills, team-working attitude, takes initiatives and very proactive in solving problems and providing best solutions. TECHNICAL SKILLS Config Management: Chef, Puppet, Vagrant, Docker, Maven, Terraform, Ansible, Artifactory, IDE, CUCMBER. Test and Build tools: Jenkins, ANT, MAVEN, Bamboo, Hudson, Gradle, Junit and Spock. Issue tracking tools: Jira, Service Now, Bugzilla. Version control system: GIT, Bit bucket, CVS, SVN, RTC, source tree. Programming Languages: C, SQL, HTML, PHP, XML, Java, Bash, Perl and Shell Programming, JSP, Python and Ruby. Web/Application Servers: Tomcat, Apache, Web logic, WebSphere and Jboss. Infrastructure as service: AWS, Open Stack and Rackspace, Microsoft Azure, Kubernetes, OpenStack Database: SQL server 2008R2/2012, Oracle 11g, MySQL. Disk Management Tools: Solaris Volume Manager (SVM), ZFS, Zones, Veritas Volume Manager, File System, Sun Solstice Disk Suite, Red Hat LVM. Network Protocols/Services: LDAP, TCP/IP, UDP, FTP, SFTP, HTTP/HTTPS, SSL, NIS, NIS+, NFS, DNS, and DHCP. Cluster Environment: Sun Cluster Servers 2.2, 3.1, 3.2 and VERITAS Cluster Servers 4.1, 5.0. Mail Server: Send Mail, IBM Lotus Notes, Microsoft outlook. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, San Diego, CA Sr. AWS DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Built and managed a large deployment of Red Hat Linux instances systems with Chef Automation and provision virtual servers using vagrant and kitchen in Oracle VM virtual box, provisioned servers in Amazon EC2. Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups. Implementing new projects builds framework using Jenkins & maven as build framework. Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins, Chef, Maven & Nexus in Linux environment Migrated configuration management from Puppet to Chef. Managed Chef cookbooks to automate system operations and AWS Cloud management Integration of Maven/Nexus, Jenkins, Urban Code Deploy with Patterns/Release, Git, Confluence, JIRA and Cloud Foundry Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS. Implemented Chef Recipes for Deployment on build on internal Data Centre Servers. Also re-used and modified same Chef Recipes to create a Deployment directly into Amazon EC2 instances. Automating infrastructure in AWS with Chef, and maternal unit, Created EC2 Instances and VPC network and assigned Roles and permissions via IAM key management. Creating storage pool and stripping of disk for AZURE virtual machines. Backup, configure and restore azure virtual machines using azure backup. Created AZURE automation assets, Graphical runbooks, PowerShell runbooks that will automate specific tasks. Created Jenkins Automated Pipeline for CI and CD with Maven Scripts along with GIT Version control. Integrated Docker container orchestration framework with Kubernetes by creating pods, config Maps, deployments, Replica sets, nodes etc. Implemented rapid-provisioning and life-cycle management for Ubuntu Linux using Amazon EC2, Chef, and custom Ruby/Bash scripts. Bootstrapping instances using Chef and integrating with auto scaling. Experience in Setting up the build and deployment automation for Terraform scripts using Jenkins. Designed and implemented Chef, including the internal best practices, cookbooks, automated cookbook CI and CD system. Written multiple cookbooks in Chef. Supporting software development and data management projects that prepare large datasets for delivery to a shared cloud computing and storage environment. Provide strategies and requirements for the seamless migration of applications, web services, and data from local and server based systems to the AWS and GCP cloud. Part of a team of DevOps engineer for infrastructure support on AWS and GCP cloud. Creating cloud formation scripts for hosting software on AWS cloud. Automating the installation of software’s through Ansible scripts The complete installation and hosting of cloud was automated with AWS cloud formation template and Ansible Familiarity Mesos and Kubernetes for orchestration and management of containers across multiple server hosts Developed chef Modules for installation & Auto healing of various CI&CD tools like Jenkins, MSSQL, Nexus etc. these modules are designed to work on both windows and Linux platforms. Defining Release Process & Policy for projects early in SDLC and responsible for code build, release and configuration Streamed AWS Log Group into Lambda function to create Service Now incidents. Configured S3 versioning and lifecycle policies to and backup files and archive files in Glacier. Experience in working with AWS Code Pipeline and creation of Cloud Formation JSON templates which is converted to Terraform for infrastructure as a code. Splunk deployment, configuration and maintenance across a variety of UNIX and Windows platforms. Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, GitHub and AWS. Involved in Configuration Automation, Centralized Management of all existing servers and automated the build/configuration of new servers using Ansible. Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy the code using GitHub, Jenkins, Nexus and Ansible. Used Azure Terraform to deploy the infrastructure necessary to create development, test, and production environments for a software development project. Used Ansible to document all infrastructure and application dependencies into version control. Worked on applying patches and recommending necessary security fixes for web Application servers Scripting in multiple languages on UNIX, LINUX and Windows - Batch, Python, Shell script etc. Troubleshoot the build issue during the Jenkins build process. Perform Deployment of Release to various QA & UAT in Linux environments. Building Docker images and checking in to AWS ECR for Kubernetes deployment. Installing Kubernetes on AWS cloud platform using KOPS and kube-aws with cloud formation templates customization. Environment: SVN(Subversion), Anthill Pro, Ansible, and Maven, Chef, Dev Ops, TFS, Jenkins, Clear case, MS Build, Unix, Linux, Perl, Bash, Jython, Python, Ruby, Cruise control, AWS, Full Stack Developer, MongoDB, Sonar, Red Hat, Bamboo, Hudson, Git, JIRA, Lambda, Shell Script, Weblogic, Selenium. Confidential, Woodland, CA DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Creating the automated build and deployment process for application, re-engineering setup for better user experience, and leading up to building a continuous integration system for all our products. Implementing new projects builds framework using Jenkins & maven as build framework tools. Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins, Puppet, maven& Nexus in Linux environment. Responsible for Distributed Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN, ACCUREV. Responsible for Database build, release and configuration. Automated testing experience; writing and testing with tools, such as Gitlab CI/CD pipeline. Configured servers to host Team Foundation Server (TFS) instance, build controllers and build agents. Manage deployment automation using Puppet, M Collective, Hiera, Custom Puppet modules, in Ruby. AWS Cloud management and Puppet automation. Created puppet manifests and modules to automate system operations. Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch. Created self-service, auto-provisioning, and auto-scaling environments using VMware Orchestrator and RedHat Enterprise, OpenStack, Cloud Formation with OpenShift, and Ansible open source software. Experienced in Performance tuning of various Application Servers, such as IBM WebSphere 7/8, WebLogic (11gR1,12cR1, 12cR2), Apache Tomcat (7/8), JBoss AS 7 Oracle, and DB2. Integration of ANT/Nexus, Jenkins, Urban Code Deploy with Patterns/Release, Git, Confluence, Jira and Cloud Foundry. Supported Production, Development and Test environment’s carrying Red Hat Linux, SUSE Linux and CentOS Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS. Defining Release Process & Policy for projects early in SDLC. Design and document CI/CD tools configuration management. Responsible for orchestrating CI/CD processes by responding to Git triggers, human input, and dependency chains and environment setup. Build and Deployment CI/CD Pipelines. Perform Deployment of Release to various QA & UAT in Linux environments. Experience Configuring and maintaining virtual server environment using VMware ESX/ESXi, vCenter, vSphere. Migrated applications to the AWS cloud Deployed patches and upgraded RedHat Linux servers and SUN servers to their latest versions. Involved in setting up Dynatrace for application monitoring and Nagios for system level monitoring. Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change. Installed and configured foreman with Puppet, Salt Stack for auto-provisioning the Linux machines in AWS and VMware environments. Scripting in multiple languages on UNIX, LINUX and Windows - Batch, Shell script etc. Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, Optimized volumes and EC2 instances Troubleshoot the build issue during the Jenkins build process. Responsible for build and deployment automation using VMWare ESX, Chef Docker, Containerization platforms Using Puppet. Hands-on experience in creating Angular factories for using angular services like http and resource to make RESTful API calls to the Java based backend. Worked on creating log-in authentication modules using AngularJS and JavaScript. Involved in writing various Custom Ansible Playbooks for deployment orchestration and also developed Ansible Playbooks to simplify and automate day-to-day server administration tasks. Environment: AWS, Subversion (SVN), Jenkins, Java/J2EE, ANT, MAVEN, GIT, APM, Dynatrace, Angular JS, Puppet, Gherkin, TC Server, Tomcat, Perl Scripts, Shell Scripts, XML, Data Center, Maven, UNIX, CentOS, Windows, Oracle.  Confidential, Phoenix, AZ Middleware/Weblogic Admin Responsibilities: Installed, Configured and Administered WebLogic 8.1/10.0 in clustered environments. Responsible for handling the Support Incident Database - the online ticketing system. Configured domains, clusters, JDBC Connection Pools, Data sources, JMS Servers. Deployment and troubleshooting of JAR, WAR, and EAR files in clustered environment. Involved in monitoring mission critical applications using tools like Introscope and Sitescope. Design, Configuration and Testing of IBM MQ 6.0 Series as a foreign JMS with WebLogic Server. Configured LDAP using Netscape directory Server for user authentication. Installed the WebLogic Service Packs, WebLogic Patches. Involved in Migrating the setup from WebLogic 8.1 -> 10.0. Installed and Configured Sun One Web Server 6.1 to proxy with WebLogic Server. Worked with Remedy change management tool to increase the availability of business critical systems and speed the implementation of changes. Installed and configured JBoss 4 and integrated Apache Web Server to work with the Application Server. Installed and configured JBoss Server 4.x, Apache HTTP Server 5, and Tomcat 2.2.20 in various environments. Configured BIG IP F5 Load balancer to provide high scalability, availability and reliability. Renewed WebLogic certificates, also installed the new certificates for the newly created regions. Actively handling the on-call pager for Production-related issues on weekly rotations within the team. Tuned TCP/IP, JVM's, Garbage Collections, Java Stack and Native Thread. Resolved complex issues related to subsystems such as Plug-ins, Security, JDBC, Clusters, EJB, Web Apps, Mail Session, XML registries, JMS, Server and Domain Migrations and JDBC Drivers. Worked with AZURE infrastructure management (AZURE web roles, worker roles, SQL AZURE, AZURE storage, AZURE AD licenses). Virtual machine backup and recover from a recover services vault using azure PowerShell and portal. Installed NetBeans 6.5 on Windows and configured to use Glassfish v2 ur2 and Jython 2.1 release. Working with the team to develop Jython/WLST Scripts for automating deployments, control, and monitoring in WebLogic Server. Extensively worked on Deployment/Hot Deployment and troubleshooting of components and applications in WAR, JAR and EAR formats in Domain and Clustered environments of BEA WebLogic server and Aqua Logic Service Bus. Migrated the production environment from a single JMS server to a clustered JMS server, analyzed the requirements, and then developed automated WLST scripts to satisfy the requirement. Installed, configured and maintained Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0 with SSL and deployed the WAR applications on the server. Installed and configured Apache HTTP Server plug-in to proxy the request from Apache HTTP Server to the WebLogic Server. Configured Wily Introscope 7.0 and upgraded to Introscope 7.2.x for monitoring the performance of Weblogic servers. Setup and Configure the continuous build system using Hudson/Jenkins and running automation smoke / nightly test suites. Performance tuning of JVM heap size, garbage collections, Java stack and Native thread and production performance. Configured WebLogic Server instance as Multi home instance and trouble shooted Weblogic JDBC connection pool issues while trying to connecting MS SQL database server. Involvement with the development teams in trouble shooting and fixing day-to-day problems of the applications on 24/7 schedule. Environment: WebLogic Server 9.2/10.3, Oracle 9i/10g, UNIX (Solaris 8/9.0/10.0, AIX 5.1, Linux), Python, ANT Script, BASH shell Windows 2003, SunOne I Planet Web Server, MS IIS Webserver, Java, JSP, EJB  Confidential, Chicago, IL Linux Administrator Responsibilities: Responsible for installing and configuring Red Hat Linux using Kick Start server. Installation and configuration ESX hosts. Making new virtual machines, with Linux Redhat server, making templates, cloning VMs using VMware Virtual Client. Created new File systems and Logical Volumes, performed file system management and troubleshooting in Redhat. Installing Redhat Linux using Kickstart and applying security policies for hardening the server based on the company's policies. Configuration of LVM (Logical Volume Manager) to manage volume group, logical and physical partitions and importing new physical volumes. Involved in SAN migrations at host level using LVM mirroring and SVM Mirroring. Installing and updating packages using RPM. Managed users, disks, group’s administration, File Sharing Permissions, backup and restore operations, and networking service. Managing IIS 5.0 / IIS 6.0 Web servers and hosted web sites. Web Server Administration/Application support -- IIS 5.0 / IIS 6.0. Configuration and installation of DHCP, DNS, web (Apache), mail (SMTP, IMAP, POP3) and file servers on Linux servers. Setup, configured and maintained NFS, NIS, and TCP/IP network, setting up SSH and SCP features between hosts. Lockdown the local accounts to secure the environment using NIS. Setup user and group login ID's, password and network configuration. Implemented early stages of a continuous integration process based on Jenkins. Worked with DBAs on installation of Oracle database. Installed and configured Oracle RAC 11g for database purpose. Worked and performed data-center operations including rack mounting, cabling. Automate configuration through Puppet. Responsible for installing, integrating, tuning and troubleshooting Apache, Tomcat, WebSphere and Web logic application server. Collaborate on monitoring and troubleshooting Servers using various third party tools like Nagios. Maintenance, performance, tuning and testing of servers for proper functioning. Network troubleshooting using 'netstat', 'ifconfig' and Worked closely with vendors on Hardware Problems, software fixes. Managing routine backup, scheduling jobs, enabling system logging and network logging. Troubleshooting tickets using BMC remedy. Developed bash shell scripts to automate routine activities. Environment: Red-Hat Linux Enterprise servers (HP Proliant DL 585, BL 465/485, ML Series), Solaris 8,9,10, AIX 5.3, 6.1, SAN(Netapp), BladeLogic, Veritas Cluster Server 5.0, Windows 2003 server, Shell programming, Jboss 4.2, JDK 1.5,1.6,, VMware Virtual Client 3.5, VMware Infrastructure 3.5.  Confidential Systems Engineer Responsibilities: Responsible to solve technical Problems related System administration (Linux of Our Clients) Maintaining and Troubleshooting of FTP Server, Samba Server of the client Handling the day-to-day Operations, Install software, apply patches, manage file systems, monitoring performance and troubleshoot alerts. Maintain 99.98% uptime of LINUX production servers and follow proper escalation. Managing Redhat Cluster, HPC environment etc. Used Jira as ticket tracking and work flow tool. Implemented automations tools DevOps. Building & Configuring Redhat Linux systems over the network, implementing automated tasks through crontab, resolving tickets according to the priority basis. Handling LVM related tasks, Creating, resizing LVM, Veritas Volume manager and also managing Cluster environment using Veritas Cluster suite. Installing and configuring Redhat Linux locally or over the network-kick start- (nfs, ftp, and http). Monitoring system performance, Server load and bandwidth issues. Work with DBAs on installation of DB, restoration and performance tuning. Installing open source application, search, analyze and develop new application for users. Implement the policies for the users of the computer system and network. Regularly manage backup process for Server and Client data. Environment: Centos 5.7/6, Redhat Linux 5.7/6, Ubuntu 10.04/10.10/11.10, Fedora 17 