SUMMARY Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) and VMware Professional (VCP) with 8+ Years of professional software industry experience in Windows Systems Administration and VMware virtualization using VMware VSphere, VMware Vi3 and Microsoft Hyper V. Strong knowledge on Server, Desktop and Application virtualization. Worked on ESX and ESXi 3, 3.5, 4.0 and 4.1, 5.0, 5.1.5.5 Currently evaluating VMware VSphere 5.5 Suite, Assigning a vShield for VMware vCloud license key in vCenter Server. Worked on VCenter server 5.1, 5.5, 6.1, 6.5 and Virtual center server 5.5 for managing multiple ESX servers. Build and troubleshooting experience with ESX servers and ESXi servers. Worked extensively on Templates and clones. Strong knowledge on resource management framework using Resource pools. Implemented and managed HA and DRS clusters. Worked on VMware FT for critical VM’s. Excellent experience and understanding with VMware vSphere 4 & vSphere 5. Excellent experience and understanding with VDI - VMware View 4.x & VMware View 5. Excellent experience and understanding with ThinApp Packaging. Excellent experience in Windows Server 2012/2008 System Administration. Experience in storage / network protocols and connectivity like FC, NAS, DAS, iSCSI, CIFS, NFS. Experience with SRM 5.0/4.5 and vCloud directory. Hands on Experience in Microsoft SQL Server 2005, 2008 / R2 & Express for VMware Products. Excellent understanding on ESX Architecture, guest OS installation, setting up of VM priorities, Cloning and Snapshots Extensive experience in SAN / NAS storage administration and system administration and trouble shooting in large data environments supporting multiple platforms and applications. Experience in RAID configuring, analyzing, administrating and maintenance of storage infrastructure (such as EMC VMAX / DMX / VNX / Clariion / Storage arrays / Switches / Directors / Hosts). Excellent experience in resource management framework like creation resource pools. Add VMs into resource pools, P2V and V2V conversions by using Plate spin, Doubletake, and VMware Converter. Patch management and upgrades using VMware update manager. P2V and V2V conversions using VMware converter enterprise 3 and 4 Plate spin. Extensively worked on Vmotion and Storage Vmotion. Sound knowledge on FC SAN, Iscsi SAN and NAS storage. Worked on windows server 2003, 2008 and 2008 R2. Sound Knowledge on NTFS permissions. Worked on Microsoft active directory. Worked on Cisco Nexus 1000V. Also, worked on Cisco VDS. Worked on Azure AD connect, Forefront Identity Manager. Strong experience with DNS and DHCP. Worked on Red hat Linux, Ubuntu, Suse Linux and client OS. Worked on HP, Dell, Fijitsu and IBM server class hardware. Extensive understanding of networking concepts, Configuration of networks, Router Configuration and wireless security, TCP/IP, VPN, Content Filtering, VLANs, and routing in LAN/WAN, Ethernet Port, Patch Panel and wireless networks. TECHNICAL SKILLS Vmware:  VMware VSphere 5, 4 and 5.1, 4.1 5ESX Server 3, 3.5 and 4.0, 4.1, 5.1, 6.1, 6.5 VCenter server 4.0, 4.1 5.1, 5.5, 6.0and Virtual center server 2.5, 3.5 and 2.0, VMware HA, DRS, DPM and FT, Vmotion and Svmotion. VMware converter 3, 4 and 5, VMware converter boot CD. Experience on installing, configuring, and upgrading support for VRealize Automation & VRealize Orchestrator and Automation Windows Systems:  Windows Server 2012 R2, 2008 R2, Windows 2003, XP, Vista, 7, Windows 2000 servers. Backup Software:  Symantec Backup exec, Vizoncore Vranger Pro, Veeam tools and VMware. Databases:  Microsoft SQL Server 2008, Practical SQL Queries. Documentation Apps:  MS Visio, MS Office 2003, 2007 and 2010, 2013. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Ohio Systems \VMware Engineer Responsibilities: 24x7 multi-geographic Third Level Technical Support (for all Intel based Windows  2000/2012/2016 HP/Dell/IBM 2500+ servers) over the phone, in person, or via e-mail and using Ticketing System handling each with professionalism and timeline. Experience with automating and scripting deployments in virtualized environments (VMware and KVM), cloud (AWS, Open stack, Azure, Google), and physical servers Installing VMware VSphere 5.1 5.5, 6.1, 6.5 and created virtual machines on ESX 5.1 5.5 6.0 Servers. Created standard images and deployed servers from the images. Designed and successfully implemented VMware ESX 5.0 5.5 6.1, 6.5 servers for server consolidation. Responsible for the managing of servers and duties include regular and proactive monitoring of servers, responding the alerts. Implementing and managing Cisco UCS Blades in a VBlock Environment. And configuring Cisco Nexus switches 9k, 7k, 5k, and 2k in a VBlock. Working on Central Management Server (VCenter Server) to manage all the ESX hosts in the datacenter. Creating and managing Virtual Machines and Templates. Working with snapshots of Virtual Machines. Installed and Tested VMware Site Recovery Manager (SRM 6.1/5.5) for the disaster recovery and managed recovery plans using Dell EqualLogic 7500 series and EMC mirror view Tested recovery plans for VM’s protected using VMware SRM. Calculation of RPO and RTO to implement VMware SRM in the environment. Implementation if VMware VDP for data protection of Virtual Machines. Configured VMware on clustered environment, Implemented Migration of Virtual Machines using Vmotion, Storage Vmotion Virtualized Windows server Migration using VMware Converter, Plate spin Power Convert. Hot and Cold Cloning of Virtual Machines using VMware Converter. Configured VMware HA, VMware DRS and Fault Tolerance in acquiring higher efficiency for VMware Virtual Infrastructure Worked on VMware Update Manager for updating or patching for all the ESX hosts and Virtual machines Configured the standard cluster settings on vCenter clusters. Provided 24/7 On-call support for the Environment Performed data store migration using VMware storage v Motion on Netapp NFS, SAN Storage Implementation of Different Host Profiles for Multiple Clusters across Multiple Data centers Implementation of SRM 6.0 on vSphere across multiple sites to provide Disaster recovery solution for VMware VSphere Environment, vSphere Linked Mode and replicated storage, Configuring Sites Roles and Privileges, Alarms for monitoring the Site Status. Failback Testing from Protected Site to Recovery Site in SRM and Shared Recovery Site across multiple Protected Sites Huge Experience using VMware converter (75 % virtualized) running different applications with Different Hardware. Have good knowledge working on vShield End Point installs to enhance performance, to prevent bottlenecks. Migration and P2V conversion Experience on many applications like SQL Server, Exchange running on Windows and some applications running on Linux Red hat and SUSE and Vmkernal Linux appliances. Experience on Host Profiles, Distributed Switch, DRS, Vmotion, SV-Motion, Resource pools, permissions, Patches, Snapshots, Tools Upgrade, disk expansions, Templates, and many more… Building Windows 2012 Servers and upgrading Windows 2008on both physical and virtual machines. Database Upgrade for vCenter and update manager from SQL 2008 to SQL 2012 on 2 vCenter Servers Building VM’s and new Templates for new Projects and allocating them to appropriate Resource pools. Remote installation of ESX Hosts, Windows 2012 Servers using Raritan and Communicating with Network/Storage teams for Server Support. Wrote scripts to make some of the upgrade process automated and automated reboot process for servers periodically using Perl, Python and PowerShell Confidential, Tampa FL Windows\Virtualization Engineer Responsibilities: Designed, installed and configured Win 2008, 2012, 2016 servers in Enterprise Environment Installing ESX and ESXi servers on HP, DELL and IBM hardware, Installation of Updated Firmware and ProLiant Support Pack for Windows 2008/12 servers. Updating VMware data center stack; Using vSphere, vSAN, NSX, VRealize and vCenter. Used tools such as VMware Converter, Plate spin Power Convert, Veeam Fastscp to Responsible for design and develop VMware vRO plugins. Working on ESX 6.1, 6.5 Environment for the P2V conversions and for installation of patches. Design, Implementation of Active Directory infrastructure and Network fundamentals, Protocols (such as TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS), Group Policy and Profile Management. Snapshots according to user’s requirement. Administered a Microsoft Cluster Server with SQL server 2005/2008. Maintained Web Servers by installing IIS 6 and 7, FTP Sites and creating Virtual Directories in IIS6 and IIS7. Involved in Managing, Installing, and Supporting Windows 2008/2016 Servers, Capacity planning using Capacity planner and VMware guided consolidation for gathering Physical Machines CPU and Memory usage metrics. P2V Hot conversions using converter enterprise 3, 4 and 5. P2V cold conversion using VMware Converter Boot CD. Performance Monitoring using Vizoncore Vfoglight and ESXTOP. Presenting FC SAN LUN’s, RDM’s iSCSI LUN’s and NFS mounts. Created v Switches, and different ports groups for different purposes. Taking care of NIC teaming at ESX server level for NLB and redundancy. Updating and upgrading ESX servers using vCenter update manager. Vmotion according to the requirement. Storage Vmotion according to the requirement. Experience with troubleshooting DNS, DHCP, IIS and Active directory. Responsible for Microsoft Exchange Server 2010, SQL and Database Server. Provide technical supports for Microsoft Outlook 2007/2010. Maintained Barracuda Spam & Virus Firewall for Exchange Server. Experience with VB Script and Power Shell Script. Successfully Migrated Win XP users to Windows 7 using USMT (User State Migration Tool). Worked on Ticket process in receiving Incident tickets in Remedy Tool in 24x7 environments. Provide Level 3 support to end users. Creating technical notes and user guides for new software and database for end users. Performed technical expertise for Windows Systems environments on issues related to servers, local services, data centers, server configuration. Maintained records for event, audit and application logs. Design, Implementation of Active Directory infrastructure and Network fundamentals, Protocols (such as TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS), Group Policy and Profile Management. Creating User Accounts and Groups in Active Directory. Installed and Configured Windows   2003/2008/2012  Servers. Monitor all windows backup and perform fine tuning every 15 days. Perform exchange server connection issue with iPhone, android and blackberry phones. Worked on Logon and Logoff scripts and assigned them to group policies, EMC Storage Environment. Worked on Disaster Recovery Exercises for DR Plan for Production Servers. Building ESX 3.5/4.0 Host and maintain those ESX servers through VI Client. Taking care of capacity planning for new clusters, ESX and VM storage issues. Configured HA, DRS clusters, FT for important VM’s. Analyzed and Implemented OS Patches and Hot Fixes as well as other OS configurations and updates using Blade Logic Patch Management tool. Involved in configuring the new HP Servers with Windows   2003/2008/2012  by using Altris tool. Confidential, Orlando FL VMware Engineer Responsibilities: Installing VMware VSphere 5.1, 5.5, 6.0, 6.1 and created virtual machines on ESX 5.1, 5.5Servers. Created standard images and deployed servers from the images. Worked on Central Management Server (VCenter Server) to manage all the ESX hosts in the datacenter. Creating and managing Virtual Machines and Templates. Working with snapshots of Virtual Machines. Designed, installed and configured Win 2003, 2008, 2012 servers in Enterprise Environment. Designed and implemented the enterprise Windows 2003, 2008 Active Directory & GPO’s. Installed and supported SQL Server 2003,2008 Windows 2003, 2008, 2012 Server Maintenance and builds Install & Support Web Servers, FTP Servers, File and Print Servers Maintained networking devices and various servers’ hardware & software. Performed installations and testing of upgrades and patches before final implementation in the active network. Defined and implemented system and network administration services. Defined and implemented backup service levels. Responsible for facilities management, liaison with vendors and training for end users on various platforms and for various applications. Responsible for documentation of processes and changes in the network on a day-to-day basis. Supported daily administered of SCCM including client health, software and operating system deployment and all required reporting. Deploy SCCM Server upgrades and patches. Managed and Monitored availability, performance and disk/cpu usage of servers Performing backups of data on the servers as well as network backups Monitor various aspects of server like health; file systems, logs using tools like BMC patrol, Tivoli, and Net view. Assisting customers and end users with hardware, software application & network connectivity issues. Installing various applications, performing OS tuning and configuring IP networking parameters. Actively participated in migration from Windows server and application updates. Troubleshooting of file system issues with remote servers via telnet and putty. Performed tape and library management of daily, monthly and incremental backups. Participated in installation of Tivoli Management Framework. Creation of profiles, profile manager, task configuration and execution with ITM 5.1 6.2 package. Configuration of Active Directory, Event Pro, Outlook to desktops and laptops and mapping them to host server. Worked on VMware Update Manager for updating or patching for all the ESX hosts and Virtual machines Configured the standard cluster settings on vCenter clusters. Migration and P2V conversion Experience on many applications like SQL Server, Exchange running on Windows and some applications running on Linux Red hat and SUSE and Vmkernal Linux appliances. Experience on Host Profiles, Distributed Switch, DRS, Vmotion, SV-Motion, Resource pools, permissions, Patches, Snapshots, Tools Upgrade, disk expansions, Templates, and many more… Building Windows 2008 Servers and upgrading Windows 2003 on both physical and virtual machines. Database Upgrade for vCenter and update manager from SQL 2005 to SQL 2008 on 2 vCenter Servers Building VM’s and new Templates for new Projects and allocating them to appropriate Resource pools. Remote installation of ESX Hosts, Windows 2008 Servers using Raritan and Communicating with Network/Storage teams for Server Support. Wrote scripts to make some of the upgrade process automated and automated reboot process for servers periodically using Perl, Python and PowerShell Managed Microsoft Clustering Services Managed Symantec NetBackup 6.0,6.5,7.1 Managed configure vSphere ESX 4.1,5.0,5.1,5.5 IIS 6.0/7.0,7.5 Confidential, Dallas, TX System Engineer Responsibilities: Installing, configuring and administering Windows2000/2003 servers. Building the servers as and when new hardware is installed. Building ESX 3.0 Host and maintain those ESX servers through VI Client. Installing and Maintaining the VC Server and VC License Server to main ESX Hosts. Creating VM Sessions on ESX Hosts and building the VM Servers. Creating and Maintaining the VM Templates. Clone the servers, converting the clone sessions to Templates and Converting to Templates. Updating the ESX servers with VMware patches Worked with Active Directory Configurations. Administered and setup print servers in Win2000/2003 server. Implemented Fault Tolerance using RAID 5.0/1.0 levels on different servers. Implementation of Servers Builds right from the scratch. Migrated more than 300 users from Metaframe Presentation Server 1.8 to 4.0. Vendor Management. Responsible for setting up Windows NT/ 2000 and MS Exchange Server 2000/ 2003. Installation and configuration of Windows 2003, Active Directory. Upgraded Windows 2000 to Windows 2003. Maintained and supported Microsoft SQL Server 2005. Created Virtual environment by using VMware ESX Server. Creating a test Environment in VM Machines for Production Team to test their applications. Experience with data center hosting web sites maintaining application servers. Creating user rights and defining local and roaming profiles. Implementation of wireless networking and wireless routers configuration. Implementation and administration of HP server insight manager. Supported Corporate Blackberry service for enterprise domain. Environment: ESX 3.0, VC Server, Windows XP/NT/2000/2003, My SQL 2000, Exchange NT/2000, Citrix Meta frame Presentation 3/4. Confidential, LA, CA VMware and Windows Consultant Responsibilities: Involved in the VMware implementation and expansion work. Added 80+ hosts bringing total to 120 managed hosts and administered more than 2000+ VMs. Created and managed separate VMware clusters like QA, Development and Production. Perform capacity analysis of existing physical production environment using VMware Capacity Planner. VMware tools upgrading and Windows patch updates. Migrated datacenters and converted physical servers to virtual servers using VMware and HP Blade servers resulting in a reduction of racks and power usage, decrease downtime during maintenance and upgrades and improved monitoring. Created and managed resource pools for Virtual Machines. Monitoring and managing performance of ESX servers and Virtual Machines using Virtual center server for HA, DRS. Involved in live migration of Virtual Machines and Virtual machines files using the Vmotion and Storage Vmotion. Handled the VMware solutions to support multiple storage connectivity options such as FC-SAN, iSCSI, NFS (NAS) and internal storage. Creation & Troubleshooting of Virtual Network, ESX & Virtual Machines. Creation of templates from VMs and deploying VMs from templates. Administer for windows server and all related server services including FTP, AD, DNS, DHCP and VPN. Perform regular maintenance of Server, which consist of adding users, editing user login scripts and granting permission to directories and shared files. Monitor Sonic wall CDP (Continues data protection) 6.0 services for offsite backup. Configure Blackberry, iPhone and Droid mobile devices with Exchange server. Provide Active Directory, Group policy and user profile maintenance. Maintain Symantec Endpoint protection management console. Provided technical support to troubleshoot network connectivity, network printing and user access issue. Troubleshoot windows infrastructure by resolving trouble tickets assigned by the users. Maintained and track hardware and software inventory and documents. Maintaining documentation and process for supported systems and applications. Confidential, OH Windows and Network engineer Responsibilities: Technical lead for converting infrastructure from VMware 3.5 to VMware 4.0 vSphere environment including Hitachi SAN disk replication. Principle engineer/project manager/ technical writer on the design for VMware migration, Citrix 4.5 upgrade, VMware Centralized Backup, High Availability implementation, and P2V conversion project. Responsibilities include design implementation, document, and train staff on the solutions put into production Environment consists of 38 virtual servers, 14 which were P2V. Each server is high priority due to the nature of their role and application There are 6 hosts, which are Dell Power Edge R710, Windows 2008 R2, and each host can handle the full inventory if a failure occurs. Also, HA, FT and DRS are enabled to allow for 99.99% uptime. VM hosts are enabled for duplication and data store configuration which has been configured for four speed/duplication rates to maximize backups and network performance. Confidential, Michigan Windows Administrator Responsibilities: Responsible for participating in providing transition support and services for the Delphi Automotive Widows servers to gather and define the processes needed for the HP global delivery teams. Publishing and assigning the user permissions to access the Applications in Citrix Management Console. Creating the load evaluators for load balance purpose while users accessing the Applications. Maintaining the file server, application and Print Server. Created User Accounts, groups and running scripts on production servers. Assigned local security policies on member servers and standalone servers using RDP. Manage and monitor Active Directory services and group policies. Worked elaborately on different windows environment which include Windows NT version 4.0, Work Station, Terminal, 2000 and 2003. Created objects like User Accounts, Computer Accounts, and Auto logon accounts. Assigning folder permissions to the users by gathering approval from the group owners. Efficiently created and managed various Groups (Domain Local and Global Security). Worked on HP Open View Service Desk (OVSD) tickets. Raised tickets for any issues discovered during validation. Using Net Use command to check whether we can connect to member servers or not. Categorization of server in terms of complexity and effort required to complete the primary system access tasks. Experience with VMware, creating VM Sessions for installing multiple OS and applications. Working on Ticket process in receiving Incident tickets in Remedy Tool in 24x7 environments. Created standard operating procedures and process documents for training off shore resources.