SUMMARY DevOps Engineer offering over 7 years’ experience solving complex problems with Creative solutions in Automating, Configuration Management, Cloud Infrastructure, Amazon Web Services & Building, Deploying, and Releasing of code across multiple environments Good experience on DevOps tools such as Chef, Vagrant, Virtual Box, Puppet, Ansible, Jenkins, Maven, ANT, SVN, GIT, andDocker. Experience in Jenkins, Apache Tomcat, Subversion, Git, Maven. Experience in scripting languages Shell and Python. Experience in development and configuration experience with software provisioning tools like Puppet & Chef. Worked on Cloud automation using AWS Cloud Formation templates. Experience with migration to Amazon Web Services AWS from Data center. Experience with and thorough understanding of automated implementation/ deployment of cloud - based infrastructures (Web apps, Application Service Environments, firewalls, load balancers, storage, monitoring, security, VPC, DNS etc.) Experience as a Build and Release Engineering in automating, building, deploying, and releasing of code from one environment to another environment. Application Deployments & Environment configuration using Puppet. Experience in working on source controller tools like GIT, Subversion (SVN). Extensive experience using Maven and Ant as a Build Tool for the building of deployable artefacts (war & ear) from source code. Extensively worked on Jenkins, Docker for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Expert in deploying the code trough web application servers like Web Sphere/Web Logic/Apache Tomcat/JBOSS. Have knowledge of configuring repositories like Artifactory and Nexus. Ability in development and execution of XML, Shell Scripts and Perl Scripts. Experience maintaining large deployments using configuration tools like Puppet and Chef. Excellent experience in documenting and automating the build and release process. Ability in managing all aspects of the software configuration management process including code compilation, packaging/deployment / release methodology, and application configurations. Experience in using virtualization tools like Virtual Box and VMware and provisioning virtual machines using Vagrant. Expertise in Querying RDBMS such as Oracle and MYSQL by using SQL for Data integrity. Experience in using bug tracking tool like JIRA and also triaged the issues and maintained bugs using JIRA Worked on Eclipse and NetBeans IDE'S. Extensive experience using Maven, Ant as build tools for writing pom.xml and build.xml respectively and building of deployable artifacts from source code. Experience in orchestration of application processes in different environments using Chef and Puppet in cloud (AWS) for deployment on multiple platforms Experienced in web/application servers like Web Sphere, JBoss Web Logic and Tomcat In-depth understanding of the principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM). Strong knowledge on source controller concepts like Branches, Merges, and Tags. Worked with Engineers, QA, and other teams to ensure automated test efforts are tightly integrated with the build system and in fixing the error while doing the deployment and building. Strong knowledge of AWS services like Elastic Load Balancers (ELB), Cloud Watch, RDS, SNS, SWF and its provision using AWS CLI Experience in orchestration of application processes in different environments using Chef and Puppet in cloud (AWS) for deployment on multiple platforms Experience in Creating secured cloud infrastructure using Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) for Staging and Development environment on AWS Configured Jenkins as a CI engine to build and promote applications to QA, UAT, Staging & PROD to Linux environments Proficient in writing SQL queries for improved performance and Query Optimization. Expertise in trouble shooting the problems generated while building, deploying and in production. Utilized Jenkins, Nexus, Git/GitHub/SVN in day-to-day activities. Independent problem solving and a good team player with strong interpersonal and communication skills. Experience supporting 24x7 production computing environments. Experience providing on-call and weekend support. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating System: sUbuntu, C, C++, Java, Python, Red-hat, Linux, Ruby, Pearl, Bash, Windows98/XP/  2000/2003/7/8/10 , Windows Server 2008/2012 Cloud Technologies: AWS Source Control Tools: Subversion, Git Build Tools: ANT, MAVEN Continuous Integration Tools: Jenkins Configuration Tools: Chef, Puppet Containerization Tools: Docker, Docker swarm Issue Tracking Tools: JIRA, Remedy Scripting: Shell Scripting, Python, Groovy Virtualization Platform: VMWare ESX, Virtual Box Web Technologies: HTML & CSS, jQuery, XML, Servlets, JSP Web/App servers: Web logic, Apache Tomcat Monitoring Tool: Nagios, Cloud Watch Database: Oracle, SQL SERVER, MySQL, Proteus 7 Professional, VHDL Wireshark, Putty, Eclipse, Atoll, MATLAB, Cisco Packet Tracer, Sybase, SQLite 3, MySQL, SQLSERVER, Turbo C, Dev C++. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE AWS/DevOps Engineer Confidential, Princeton, NJ Responsibilities: Worked closely with development teams to integrate their projects into the production AWS environment and ensure their ongoing support Administered and Engineered Jenkins for managing weekly Build, Test and Deploy chain, GIT with Dev/Test/Prod Branching Model for weekly releases. Configured and installed Red-hat Linux Servers using Kickstart. RPM and YUM package installations, patch and other server management. Analyzed and resolved conflicts related to merging of source code in Git Implemented a Continuous Delivery framework using Maven, Jenkins, Puppet & Nexus in Linux environment Used Maven as build tool on Java projects for the deployment of build artifacts on the source code & Deploying and validating the applications automated through the Jenkins Configured Jenkins with GitHub and Schedule the jobs on every commit made by the team using GitHub Web Hook Developed the Build and Deployment scripts using Maven as build tool in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments Extensively worked on Jenkins for Continuous Integration and End to End automation for all builds and deployments, Creating and configuring Jenkins jobs and delivery pipelines. Used Maven for building Java/J2EE Applications Defined dependencies and plugins in Maven pom.xml for various activities and integrated Maven with GIT to manage and deploy project related tags Worked with puppet as Configuration Management Tool to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively managed changes Experienced in configuring and managing Puppet master server and also experienced in updating and creating modules and pushing them to Puppet Clients Worked on Docker and Vagrant for managing different environments by creating virtual Containers through Docker images. Created and updated Puppet Manifests and Modules, files, and packages Docker swarm is integrated with Docker daemon. Designed roles and groups of users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM) and managed network security using Security Groups, and Configuration of Notification and Monitoring Alerts for IAM Solutions using Cloud Watch Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto-scaling, and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, ECS, EBS, ELB, Auto-Scaling groups, Optimized volumes and EC2 instances Created S3 buckets, managed policies for S3 buckets, used S3 & glacier for storage and backup on AWS Configured Elastic Load Balancers with EC2 Auto-scaling groups Environment: AWS, Agile, Jira, Git, Maven, Jenkins, Puppet, Nexus, Cloud Watch, Python, Ruby, Shell Scripts, Docker, Tomcat, EC2, S3, RDS, IAM, VPC, ELB AWS/DevOps Engineer Confidential, Toms River, NJ Responsibilities: Configured and installed Red-hat Linux Servers using Kickstart. RPM and YUM package installations, patch and other server management. Managed GIT and SVN as Source Control Systems. Performed all necessary day-to-day Subversion/GIT support for different projects. Responsible for designing and deploying best SCM processes and procedures. Maintained and Administered GITHUB Source Code Tool. Created Branches, Labels and performed Merges in Stash and GITHUB. Used ANT/Maven for building Java/J2EE and .Net Applications. Extensively used Maven tool to do the builds, integrated Maven to Eclipse and did local builds. Deployment of the Business processes by creating JAR, WAR, TAR and EAR files Integrated Maven with Jenkins for the builds as the Continuous Integration process. Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins Continuous Integration tool on Linux machines along with adding/updating plugins such as SVN, GIT, Maven, ANT, and Puppet. Setup the Jenkins jobs for Continuous integration process and to execute test cases. Deployed Java/J2EE and .Net applications to WebLogic server using Jenkins builds. Experience deploying and maintaining multi-container applications through Docker. Experience working on several Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, machine, compose and Docker registry. Experience working on Docker Hub, creating Docker images and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations. Involved in leading Automation Deployment Team by working with Puppet. Provided installation & maintenance of Puppet infrastructure and developed Puppet recipes &modules for configuration management. Performed system administration and operations tasks using Puppet, Nagios. Worked on AWS EC2, IAM, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer (ELB), auto scaling group services. Creating Amazon EC2 instances using command line calls and troubleshoot the most common problems with instances. Automating infrastructure in AWS using amazon web services and Configuring EC2 Instances, VPC, Route 53, ELB, Subnets. Creating manifests and deploying using Puppet to completely provision and manage AWS EC2 instances, volumes, DNS, and S3. Maintained JIRA for tracking and updating project defects and tasks. Installed and configured SonaType Nexus repository for sharing the artifacts between the internal teams. Review reports from QA team and other reports from automated tools like SonarQube. Configured Virtual Linux/Ubuntu machines using Oracle Virtual Box for testing purposes. Configured application servers to deploy the code. Wrote Shell and Python scripts for day-to-day Administration. Experienced with various scripts Shell, Perl and Python for automation of various tasks. Installed and configured SSH & SSL for secured access on Linux Systems. Worked on Linux kernel issues, memory upgrade & swap area to resolve the performance of severs. Environment: AWS, Agile, Jira, Git, Maven, Jenkins, Puppet, Nexus, Cloud Watch, Python, Ruby, Shell Scripts, Docker, Tomcat, EC2, S3, RDS, IAM, VPC, ELB DevOps Engineer Confidential, Brick, NJ Responsibilities: Working as part of DevOps Team for different internal automation and build configuration management. Developed shell scripts for automation of the build and release process. Automated the front-ends platform into highly scalable, consistent, repeatable infrastructure using high degree of automation using Puppet, Jenkins, and Cloud Formation. Maintaining the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53 services in AWS cloud. Launching Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Images (RHEL/Ubuntu) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications. Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. Used Puppet for automation and scheduling automated jobs. Automated centralized configuration using Puppet. Experience developing Puppet modules to manage and automate install process. Used Jenkins & Puppet to perform automated CI Builds and Deployments. Deployed Puppet for configuration management to existing infrastructure. Worked on creation of puppet manifest files to install tomcat instances and to manage configuration files for multiple applications. Developed Python Scripts to automate log rotation of multiple logs from web servers. Responsible for build and deployment automation using Docker containers and Puppet. Deployed Java/J2EE and .Net applications through Tomcat Application servers. Involved in setting up of Docker and creating new images and getting images from Docker hub and performing the builds. Implemented Docker on production side and worked on Docker images and containers and deployed web applications. Written Cloud formation templates and deployed AWS resources using it. Created S3 buckets and managed policies and utilized S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS. Implemented Git mirror for SVN repository, which enables users to use both Git and SVN. Worked with a complex environment on Red Hat Linux and Windows Servers while ensuring that these systems adhere to organizational standards and policies. Worked on building Object Oriented applications using Java, writing Shell Scripts on UNIX. Generated Perl & UNIX scripts for build activities in QA, Staging and Production environments Created Cloud Watch alerts for instances and using them in Auto scaling launch configurations. Monitoring the server alerts through Nagios, Cloud Watch and troubleshooting the alerts. Environment: Git, SVN, Jenkins, Puppet, Java, Maven, Shell, Nexus, Tomcat, Linux/Ubuntu, Docker, Python DevOps Engineer Confidential Responsibilities: Worked as Build & Release Engineer for a team that involved different development teams & multiple simultaneous software releases Managed build and deployment process of applications/services developed in C/Java to Dev, QA and production environments on Linux servers on day to day basis Experienced in Branching, Merging, Tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like SVN Maintained configuration files for each application for the purpose of build and install in different environments. Performed merges for each build from Development Branch to Integration Branch Worked with the automated scripts for the Build and Deployment of the applications Experienced in branching, tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tool like Subversion (SVN) on Linux and Windows platforms Utilized SVN as the versioning and source code repository storage environment for the development of project where scripting used in order to build projects was ANT Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT as build tool in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments Maintained build related scripts developed in the shell for ANT. Created and Modified build configuration files including build.xml Worked as a member of Release Engineering group, redefined processes and implemented tools for software builds, patch creation, source control, release tracking and reporting Responsible for Regular Build jobs are initiated using the Continuous Integration tool like Jenkins Assisted in maintaining current build systems, developed build scripts, and maintained the source control system Created and maintained scripts for automating common activities. Conducted or supported the deployment of software releases into development and test environments, troubleshooting release package, and deployment procedure or environment configuration issues. Prepared the Release plan and Coordination activities for Release Management Environment: SVN, Ant, Jenkins, Linux, Shell scripting, Linux/Ubuntu DevOps Engineer Confidential Responsibilities: Responsible for Co-ordinate with Development group and testing teams Knowledge of solving compilation errors Installed, Deployed Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x/7.x, CentOS and installation of packages and patches for Red Hat Linux Servers. Designed effective planning for SCM and implemented the setup of the Environment Involved in managing other version control tools like SVN Participated in the release cycle of the product, which involved environments like Development, QA, UAT and Production. Worked on all necessary day-to-day Subversion provision for projects and responsible for maintenance of the Subversion Repositories and the access control strategies. Maintained Subversion repositories on Windows Responsible for weekly and monthly builds Used ANT as build tools on Java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code. Installed and administered Artifactory repository to deploy the artifacts generated by Maven and to store the dependent jars which are used during the build. Experience in development of Web & Enterprise applications using JAVA and J2EE Technologies. Coordinated with Project Managers Developers and QA Analysts to ensure successful software build and deployment for test, staging and production environment Monitor the required queues for incoming build requests and take necessary action to accomplish a request resolution and troubleshot the build related issues Environment: SVN, Ant, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, Java/J2EE, Tomcat, Nexus 