SUMMARY Over 10+ years of experience in IT industry comprising of delivery management, design, development, release & deployment, and cloud implementation. Good experience on Devops tools such as Chef, Vagrant, Virtual Box, Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere, Bit Bucket, GitHub, Puppet, Ansible, Jenkins, Maven, ANT, SVN, GIT, and Docker. Experience in Infrastructure Development and Operations involving AWS Cloud platforms, EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, RDS, SES, ELB, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, SNS. Strong Experience on AWS platform and its dimensions of scalability including VPC, EC2, ELB, S3 and EBS, ROUTE 53. Development and version control of Chef Cookbooks, testing of Cookbooks using Food critic and Test Kitchen and running recipes on nodes managed by on premise Chef Server. 5+ years' experience in cloud computing including Azure Implemented Azure Storage, Azure SQL Azure Services and developing Azure Web role. Used Windows Azure to deploy the application on the cloud and managed the session Experience Active Directory, Azure Active Directory, ADFS, Azure Active Directory Domain Service, SSO and MFA and security Experience migrating infrastructure and application from on premise to Azure and from Cloud to Cloud such as AWS to Microsoft Azure and GCP Experienced in cloud automation using AWS cloud Formation Templates, Chef and Puppet. Worked with automating, configuring and deploying instance on AWS, Open Stack, aws and Rack space Implemented puppet modules to automate the installation and configuration for a broad range of services. Leveraged Hiera to create various re - usable puppet modules. Written Chef Cookbooks for various DB configurations to modularize and optimize end product configuration Implemented Chef Recipes for Deployment on build on internal Data Centre Servers. Also re-used and modified same Chef Recipes to create a Deployment directly into Amazon EC2 instances. Used Chef for server provisioning and automating infrastructure. Well versed with Ansible Playbooks, modules and roles. Ensure data integrity and data security on AWS technology by implementing AWS best practices. Ability to identify and gather requirements to define a solution to be build and operated on AWS. Well versed with Open stack based cloud infrastructure. Well versed with creation of puppet profiles and role modules. Extensively worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and for End-to-End automation for all build and deployments. Set up Continuous Integration for major releases in Jenkins. Knowledge and experience in creating Jenkins Pipeline. Experienced with build automation tools like Ant and Maven.Experienced with Docker container service. Docker applications by creating Docker images from Docker file. Experienced in Branching, Merging, Tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like GIT and Subversion (SVN) on Linux platforms. Experienced in setting up of AWS relational databases like Aurora, MYSQL, MSSQL and NoSQL database DynamoDB Integration, deployment and automation of application servers Tomcat, Web Logic across Linux platforms. Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket. Prepared capacity and architecture plan to create the Azure environment to host migrated IaaS VMs and PaaS role instances for refactored applications and databases. Configured Azure Traffic Manager to build routing for user traffic Infrastructure Migrations: Drive Operational efforts to migrate all legacy services to a fully virtualized Infrastructure. Experience in using Bug tracking tools like JIRA and HP Quality center. Extensively experienced in Bash, Perl, Python, Ruby scripting on Linux. Writing/Maintaining Ruby Chef recipes for production and development systems Automated the process of launching and stopping/terminating EC2 instances on Amazon AWS with BOTO. Created dimensional snowflake models based on Kimball methodology Used Python fabric for AWS instance provisioning. Experience in setting up Baselines, Branching, Merging and Automation Processes using Shell, Perl, Ruby,Python and Bash Scripts. Designed distributed processing architecture to monitor and maintain continuous security & compliance by using AWS Services and Python. Developed facts and dimensions tables using star and/or snowflake schema Infrastructure in Cloud and On-Premise on Window Involving in Configuring, managing and troubleshooting Physical, Virtual s server, Active Directory, Networking, Storage, VMware, Hyper -V, AWS Cloud, Microsoft Azure (IAAS,PAAS,SAAS) Expertise in Agile Testing Methodologies &Software Test Life Cycle (STLC) Experience of the full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Methodologies & Validations to ensure the Quality Assurance Control. Reconfigured SaltStack Cluster to properly provision and monitor over 300 servers, then evaluated SaltStack processes and migrated over 30 different SlatStack provisioning manifests to Puppet Enterprise to provide better support for package deployment and configuration management Extensive experience in UNIX performance tuning and Capacity Planning. Code development using Eclipse, HTML, java, JSP, SWING, Servlet and SQL. Strong in building using java writing Shell Scripts on UNIX. Experience in deploying system stacks for different environments like Dev, UAT and Prod in both on premise and cloud infrastructure. Strong experience in working in Linux and Windows environments. Worked on bug tracking tools and have good experience on tools like Jira (Bug tracking and monitoring), and also used web based tools like Confluence (collecting thoughts and knowledge), crucible (pear review of codebase), HipChat (Secure chatting in between the team), Fisheye(to secure browsing) also for issue tracking and project management. Good knowledge on ITIL Process and have worked on coordinating releases across the projects Good analytical, problem solving, communication skills and have the ability to work either independently with little or no supervision or as a member of a team. Excellent written and verbal communication skills, strong organizational skills, and a hard-working team player. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: RHEL/Cent OS 5.x/6.x/7, Ubuntu/Debian/Fedora, Sun Solaris, Windows Server Cloud Technologies: Amazon Web Services (IAM, S3, EC2, VPC, ELB, Route53, RDS, Auto Scaling, Cloud Front), Jenkins, GIT, CHEF, CONSUL, Docker, OpenStack, Azure and Rack Space DevopsTools: Urban Code Deploy, Jenkins (CI), Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS Build Tools: ANT, MAVEN, Gradle, Nant, MS Build, Control-M / Kom& Bash shell, Data Power Languages/ Scripts: Java/J2EE, C, C++, SQL, JAVASCRIPT, Languages Shell, Bash, Perl, Ruby and Python scripting Databases: MySQL, Mongo DB, Cassandra, Postgre SQL, SQL Server, Aurora Web/App Server: Apache, IIS, HIS, Tomcat, WebSphere Application Server, JBoss Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, Rally, Remedy and IBM Clear Quest, Bugzilla, HP Quality Center Versioning Tool: RTC, SVN, GIT, TFS, Clear case, Perforce, CVS, VSS CI Tools: Hudson, Jenkins, Bamboo, Cruise Control Devops/Build & Release Engineering: Jenkins, Perforce, Docker, Udeploy AWS, Chef, puppet, Ant, Vagrant, Atlassian-Jira, GITHub, Bit Bucket, Teamcity, Ansible, Open Stack and Salt Stack, Splunk, Zabbix, Nexus PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - San Francisco, CA Sr.AZURE/Devops Engineer Responsibilities: Developed build and deployment processes for Pre-production environments. Used Subversion as source code repositories. Developed Shell/Python Scripts for automation purpose. Resolved merging issues during rebasing and re-integrating branches by conducting meetings with Development Team Leads. Ability to build deployment, build scripts and automated solutions using various scripting languages such as Shell, PowerShell, Python, Ruby. Created and wrote shell scripts (Bash), Ruby, Python and PowerShell for automating tasks. Automated Weekly releases with ANT/Maven scripting for Compiling Java Code, Debugging and Placing Builds into Maven Repository. Experience in Private Cloud and Hybrid cloud configurations, patterns, and practices in Windows Azure and SQL Azure and in Azure web and database deployments. Building and Installing servers through Azure Resource Manager Templates (ARM). Setup Azure Virtual Appliances (VMs) to meet security requirements as software-based appliance functions (firewall, WAN optimization and intrusion detections). Worked as an administrator on Microsoft Azure and part of Devops Team for internal projects automation and build configuration management. Involved in configuring virtual machines, storage accounts, and resource groups. Gained experience in dealing with Windows Azure IaaS - Virtual Networks, Virtual Machines, Cloud Services, Resource Groups, Express Route, Traffic Manager, VPN, Load Balancing, Application Gateways, Auto-Scaling. Deploying a DC/OS cluster with ACS and containerized applications Deploying clusters, custom clusters and extending the ACS- Engine. Deploy ACS cluster into resource group using cli. Deploying a Linux Kubernetes Clusters with ACS from the Azure CLI. Configured VM's availability sets using Azure portal to provide resiliency for IaaS based solution and scale sets using Azure Resource Manager to manage network traffic. Azure, AWS platforms including the design and automation of Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and Platform as a Service (PaaS), SaaS capabilities including virtual networks, virtual machines, cloud services, container services, data center OS services, web sites, data services, etc. Working knowledge of cloud PaaS platforms such as Pivotal Cloud Foundry,Azure, AWS, IBM Bluemix Have deployed various applications through Docker containers. Used AGILE MVN method to develop a build and also ANT as a build tool. Collaborated with Project Manager in the analysis for Clear Case integration. Worked on infrastructure with Docker containerization. Involved in writing parent POM files to establish the code quality tools integration. Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins CI tool on Linux machines. Installed, configured and maintained web servers like HTTP Web Server, Apache Web Server and WebSphere Application Server on Red Hat Linux. Involved in migration of code from VSS to GIT and TFVC to GIT. Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming conventions using GIT source control. Programmatically creating Jenkins Jobs using Jenkins REST API With the use of IAM managed different user giving API level permissions to access only to specific resources for the user required. Created Micro services using AWS Lambda and API Gateway using REST API. Piloted and shared US Subscription Activation Campaign driving early Azure cloud developer adoptio Aligned Azure and Google Cloud Platform capabilities and services with work load requirements Experienced with deployments, Maintenance and troubleshooting applications on Microsoft Cloud infrastructure AZURE Exposed Virtual machines and cloud services in the VNets to the Internet using External Load Balancer Extensive experience in Windows AZURE (IaaS) migrating like creating AZURE VMs, storage accounts, VHDs, storage pools, migrating on premise servers to AZURE and creating availability sets in AZURE Automates the deployment of Linux applications inside software containers with Docker. Implemented the setup for Master slave architecture to improve the Performance of Jenkins. Used Jenkins, Build forge for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server. Configuration and Deployment of SQL server 2005/2008 Reporting services. Handled deployment of JAR, EAR and WAR files to the respective application server instances. Designed an Architectural Diagram for different applications before migrating into Amazon cloud for flexible, cost-effective, reliable, scalable, high-performance and secured. Involved in all phases of software life cycle including Requirements Gathering, Designing, Development, Testing and Debugging of Java/J2EE Application Created XML configuration file for Hibernate to map to SQLServer Database. On boarded multiple data sources within Splunk, creating custom TAs for data parsing. I worked with Docker and Kubernetes on multiple cloud providers, from helping developers build and containerize their application (CI/CD) to deploying either on public or private cloud. Create and manage Cinder volumes in Openstack Cloud. Create and collect measurements across Openstack using Ceilometer Telemetry Service. Monitoring running stacks including events & resources on Openstack Cloud. Knowledge in Implementation of horizontal auto-scaling use cases using Openstack components - Heat, Ceilometer, Lbaas. Implemented automated local user provisioning in instances created in Openstack cloud through Ansible Play books. Experience in Implementation of Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery and other tooling as needed to support internal and customer development efforts to customize and enhance Openstack Involved in Research of the project application architecture to support/resolve build, compile, and test issues/problems. Releasing code to testing regions or staging areas according to the schedule published. Participated in all Product Release and Patches. Used Jira as ticket tracking and work flow tool. Successfully managed concurrent deliverables on time and with quality in fast-paced environment and under deadlines. ENVIRONMENT: AWS Cloud (EC2, VPC, ELB, S3, RDS, Cloud Trail and Route 53), Azure, AIX and Windows, BMC Remedy, Shell, Python, Web Logic Server 11g, Active Directory, JDK1.7, XML, Anthill Pro, SVN, Jenkins, Maven, GIT, Jira, Docker, SQL, J2EE, Puppet, Shell, Perl, ANT, Cruise Control, UNIX, Windows NT/2000 and WebSphere. Confidential - Blue Ash, OH Sr.Devops Engineer Responsibilities: Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts. Build and configure a virtual data center in the Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse hosting including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups, Route Tables, Elastic Load Balancer. Continuously managed and improved the build infrastructure for global software development engineering teams including implementation of build scripts, continuous integration infrastructure and deployment tools. Used AWS Elastic Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, PHP, NodeJS, Python, Ruby and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache and IIS. Strong development and design experience with various java and JEE frameworks like Spring, Spring boot, Groovy, Grails, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, Apache CXF, Jersey, Apache Axis, JPA, Hibernate, MyBiatis, Struts, JSF, EJB 3.1, EJB 2.1 and JMS. Good knowledge in creating and maintaining various Devops related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged virtual environments using Docker and Vagrant. Great exposure to network protocols like TCP/IP, UDP, DNS, SMTP, FTP, TELNET, HTTP and frame works like struts, spring and Hibernate. Implemented automated local user provisioning instances created in AWS cloud. Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources, VPC EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates. Hands on Experience on Cloud automation, Containers and PaaS (Cloud foundry) which helps to trigger the inherent originality of an individual using Terraform. Experience in using Cloud foundry (CF) CLI for deploying applications and other CF management activities. Involved in development and introduction of Google Cloud services (AWS, Google Cloud and Azure); more than 750 applications deployed to the Google Cloud delivering faster service and more than 10% OPEX savings. Provided build, deploy, automation test control, generating reports and notification services with an end goal of continuous integration in a data center and Google Cloud environment. Deployed, configured and installed multiple test (QA) servers on AWS, Azure and Google Cloud. Used BOTO for automating the process and terminating EC2 instances on Amazon AWS and Google cloud deployments Developed critical modules like generating amazon resource numbers and integration points with S3, Dynamo DB, RDS, Lambda and SQS Queue. Developed the puppet manifests for different application and web servers like Apache, Tomcat, Web Sphere applications Implemented business logic using scala language in business model and integration components. Implemented applications with Scala along with Spring and Play framework Designed and implemented scalable, secure cloud architecture based on Amazon Web Services. Defined branching, labeling, and merge strategies for all applications in Git. Built Continuous Integration environment Jenkins and Continuous delivery environment. Utilized Configuration Management tool Chef & created Chef Cookbooks using recipes to automate system operations. Written Chef Cookbooks for various DB configurations to modularize and optimize end product configuration Implemented Chef Recipes for Deployment on build on internal Data Centre Servers. Also re-used and modified same Chef Recipes to create a Deployment directly into Amazon EC2 instances. Used Chef for server provisioning and automating infrastructure. Reviewed Openshift/ PaaS product architecture and suggested improvement features after conducting research on Competitors products. Responsible for configuring the apps to Openshift/ v3 and containerization of apps using Docker Implemented Microservices on Openshift/ based on Docker to achieve Continuous Delivery Experience working with the Openshift Enterprise which allows developers to quickly develop, host and scale applications in a self-manage cloud environment. Deployed applications on AWS by using Elastic Beanstalk. Integrated delivery (CI and CD) using Jenkins and puppet. Integration of Maven/Nexus, Jenkins, Urban Code Deploy with Patterns/Release, Git, Confluence, JIRA and Cloud foundry Deployed application using Pivotal Cloud foundry (PCF) CLI. Experience with defining and creating usable and customer friendly, intuitive interfaces to the JIRA tool in a fast-paced evolving environment. Used AWS Data Pipeline for creating complex data processing workloads. Used ANT and MAVEN as a build tools on java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code. Experienced in organization of uses on Apache Web server, Nginx, JBOSS, WebLogic and WebSphere Application Responsible for moving data between different AWS compute and storage services by using AWS Data Pipeline. Created a Python process hosted on Elastic Beanstalk to load the Redshift database daily from several source Manage AWS EC2 instances utilizing Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancing and Glacier for our QA and UAT environments as well as infrastructure servers for GIT and Chef. Administered and Engineered Jenkins for managing weekly Build, Test and Deploy chain, SVN/GIT with Dev/Test/Prod Branching Model for weekly releases. Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch. Responsible for building out and improving the reliability and performance of Cloud applications and Google Cloud infrastructure deployed on Amazon Web Services. Experience administrating/facilitating source code repository tools, including SVN and Bitbucket. Experience administrating/facilitating Continuous Integration (CI) tools, including Jenkins and Bitbucket Pipelines. Experience with the cloud versions of JIRA, Confluence, and Bitbucket Pipelines. Experience translating Confluence documentation into JIRA. Provide SME in all areas of Cloud (IaaS, PaaS, SaaS) to existing and perspective clients on multiple cloud platforms AWS and various PaaS platforms (Cloud Foundry/openshift). Performed Task & resolving issues in Project Integration stream when developers faced problem of delivering. Migrated applications to the AWS cloud.Involved in DevOps processes for build and deploy systems. Created Python scripts to totally automate AWS services which includes web servers, ELB, Cloudfront distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration, this script creates stacks, single servers, or joins web servers to stacks. Planned release schedules with agile methodology & coordinated releases with engineering & SQA for timely delivery. Troubleshoot the automation of Installing and configuring applications in the test environments. Daily routine is to deploy the code to the lower environments, automating the deployment. Responsible for coordinating the Offshore and Onsite team and resolve all the issues faced by the team. ENVIRONMENT: AWS Cloud (EC2, VPC, ELB, S3, RDS, Cloud Trail and Route 53), Cloud Watch, Chef, Perl, Python, AWC EC2, Ant, CI/CD, Bash Scripts, Jira, Maven, SVN, Git, SQL, J2EE, Nagios, Subversion, Jenkins, Unix/Linux, Shell scripting, Websphere. Confidential - Charlotte, NC Devops/Bulid & Release Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in designing and deploying a large applications utilizing almost the entire AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud Formation. Working on migration project of moving current applications in traditional datacenter to AWS by using AWS services. Launching AmazonEC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services (Linux/ Ubuntu/RHEL) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications. Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and also configured the storage on S3 buckets. Assisted the team experienced in deploying AWS and Cloud Platform Managed IAM policies, providing access to different AWS resources, design and refine the workflows used to grant access. Written Chef Cookbooks for various DB configurations to modularize and optimize end product configuration. Converting production support scripts to Chef Recipes and AWS server provisioning using Chef Recipes. Created AWS Route53 to route traffic between different regions. Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud watch. Implemented ITIL process while pushing builds and deployments to prod and pre-prod environments. Managed servers on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform instances using Puppet, Chef Configuration management. Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates. Created Chef Automation tools and builds and do an overall process improvement to any manual processes. Launched Compute(EC2) and DB(Aurora, Cassandra) instances from Amazon Management Console and CLI Experience in Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket. Experience with Build Management tools Ant and Maven for writing build.xml and Pom.xml Experienced in build and deployment of Java applications on to different environments such as QA, UAT and Production. Branching, Tagging, Release Activities on Version Control Tools: SVN, GITHub, Bit Bucket. Implemented Continuous Integration using Jenkins and Hudson. Configuring and deploying Open Stack Enterprise master hosts and Open Stack node hosts. Experienced in deployment of applications on Apache Web server, Nix and Application Servers like Tomcat, JBoss. Used Spring IOC to define all the workflows as beans and load the corresponding dependencies for the workflows. Virtualized the servers using the Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs and also configuration automation using Docker containers. Experienced in setting up MongoDB, MySQL, SQL, Aurora on AWS Experience with Bug tracking tool like JIRA, Bugzilla and Remedy. Worked with various scripting languages like Bash, Perl, Shell, Ruby, PHP and Python. Coordinated with the Offshore and Onshore teams for Production Releases. ENVIRONMENT: Amazon Web Services, IAM, S3, RDS, EC2, VPC, cloud watch, Nix, ANT, Maven,Tortoise SVN, Jenkins, GITHub,Bit Bucket, Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Docker, Java, Agile, Apache HTTPD, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Junit, Cucumber, Json, Bash, Shell, Perl, Python, PHP, Ruby. Confidential System Admin Responsibilities: Systems Engineer for a team that involved different development teams and multiple simultaneous software releases. Developed and implemented Software Release Management strategies for various applications according to the agile process. Managed Tortise SVN repositories for branching, merging and tagging. Used Subversion as source code repositories. Worked on Nagios for monitoring the systems. Developed Shell/Perl Scripts for Automation purpose. Implemented multi-tier application provisioning in Open Stack cloud, integrating it with Puppet. Responsible for designing and deploying best SCM processes and procedures. Worked closely with Software Developers and Devops to debug software and system problems. Created scripts in Python which integrated with Amazon API to control instance operations. Designing and implementing fully automated server build management, monitoring and deployment By Using Technologies like Puppet. Developed build and deployment scripts using Ant and Maven as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. Deployed Puppet, Puppet dashboard for configuration management to existing infrastructure. Used Puppet to manage Web Applications, Configured Files, and Data base, Commands, Users Mount Points, and Packages. Maintained and coordinated environment configuration, controls, code integrity, and code conflict resolution. Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins CI tool on Linux machines. Setting up continuous integration and formal builds using Bamboo with Art factory repository. Resolved update, merge and password authentication issues in Bamboo and JIRA. Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming conventions using GIT source control. Developed Power Shell 2.0 scripting to work with TFS Object Model to utilize for more repeatable, automated processes and tasks. Analyze and resolve conflicts related to merging of source code for GIT. Implemented the setup for Master Slave Architecture to improve the Performance of Jenkins. Managing the code migration from TFS, CVS and Star team to Subversion repository. Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat application server. Deployed .NET applications to application servers in an agile continuous integration environment and also automated the whole process. Installed and Configured the Nexus repository manager for sharing the artifacts within the company. Supported and developed tools for Integration, Automated Testing and Release Management. Involved in Research of the project application architecture to support/resolve Build, Compile and Test issues/problems. ENVIRONMENT: .NET, Windows, Ant, Maven, Nagios, Subversion, Puppet, Power Shell, ORM, Open Stack, Shell/Perl, Python, SCM, GIT, CVS, TFS, Jenkins, MS Build, SVN, Tomcat, Bamboo, Jira, Oracle. Confidential Linux Administrator Responsibilities: Installing and assembling the hardware components and installing the operating systems (Red hat, CentOS) Installing FTP Server and setup network configuration. Involved in all major projects to recommendations, design, and implement backup and storage solution. Maintain enterprise backup environment by monitoring Tivoli system for sizing considerations through usage trending Design and test a Disaster Recovery solution for all business critical applications and systems, including AIX, Linux and Solaris systems. Design and implement a DNS/DHCP solution to replace current aging system. Solution required 99.9% uptime via Linux clustering. Size AIX systems that would support Oracle databases, as well as tune systems for performance issues through disk and network topology, as well as system environment tuning. Implemented software RAID at install-time and run-time on Linux. Diagnose and correct problems with network services and any other hardware issues in AIX and Linux servers. Receive and load the packages for application code. Worked together with business analysts to design and implement new processes and up-gradation to existing processes. Involvement with the Customer care and Deployment teams in trouble shooting and fixing day-to-day problems of the applications in production on 24/7 schedules. ENVIRONMENT: RedHat7/8, RHEL3.x, 4.x, Tivoli Storage Management, Oracle, TSM, DHCP, Capacity Planning, Apache, Web logic, Send mail. 