SUMMARY 11+Years of IT industry experience in Analysis, design, coding/development, support and testing of business, commercial, Financial, AML and Petrochemical applications mostly in C#, ASP.Net, ASP.Net MVC, ADO.Net, SOAP Web Services, WCF Services, Web API, Angular2/4/5, SQL Server, Oracle and NET Framework. Experience in implementing complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for various applications including Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing, Maintenance and Support. Experience in working with Iterative Agile Programming Methodologies, Waterfall methodologies, Scrum and Test - driven development (TDD). Experience in design and development of n-tier Internet/Intranet based Client Server applications using ASP.Net, C#, MVC, AJAX, LINQ, Visual Studio, XML, HTML, CSS, IIS, VSS, TFS, GIT, etc. Experience with .NETfeatures like Events & Delegates, Generics, Extension methods & Collections like Array list, Hash tables, Dictionary and Exception Handling, Serialization, LINQ, etc. Experience with Web based, Client-Server, MVC and n-tier Architectures. Experience in developing AJAX .Net applications by using different .Net Frameworks. Experience in developing the Authentication and Authorization mechanisms in C#.Net application Proficient in working with Web UI Technologies like HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, and Angular2, etc. Knowledge and Experience in (OOD) Object Oriented Programming and UML modelling. Knowledge in MANTAS - Anti Money Laundering Product Experience in COB Testing and TDD (Test Driven Development) Experience in different design patterns like Singleton, Factory, and Abstract Factory, Facade, etc. Familiar with tools like JIRA, Type mock, Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, Atom, Grunt, Gulp, Webpack, ServiceNow, etc. Experience on handling of incidents created by clients on ServiceNow tool. Experience with Bootstrap for Responsive Web Design (RWD) and CSS. Extensive experience in design and development of web forms using ASP.NET. Implemented Session management using Session variables and memory management using Garbage collection Developed Razor views with strongly typed view models, partial views, routing mechanism and filters using ASP.NETMVC4, CSS3, HTML5 and C# Implemented the Bundling and minification asper requirement Experience in designing the user controls, Compile/Runtime polymorphism, Abstract Classes and Interfaces by using C#.Net. Experience on creating automated test scripts using Type mock. Expertise in handling response data from web services using XML, JSON. Developed applications using (WCF) Windows Communication Foundation and Restful Web API Expertise in using UI Design Patterns like MVC, 3 tier architecture. Expertise in developing customized and distributed applications using User Controls and Custom Controls. Experience in ADO.NET and Object relational mapping frameworks, Entity Framework, LINQ to SQL. Developed vast number of Data Tables and Data sets during coding to implement required logic Expertise in Database Design and Database Programming using SQL Server and Oracle. Expertise in writing scripts, tables, stored procedures, functions, indexes, triggers, cursors, views, functions, SQL Commands (DDL, DML, TCL), Common Table Expressions (CTEs) and jobs/batch files and temporary tables. Experience with different version control tools like SVN, TFS and GIT. Knowledge with Network Protocols using TCP/IP, HTTP, SOAP. Knowledge in Web gardening and Web farming Written optimized SQL Queries using different joins (inner, outer as left, right, full) for database related operations Experience in REST (Representational State Transfer) principals. Experience in SOA Architecture Knowledge in Normal forms, which plays major role in the database design Knowledge in ACID (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability) Properties Automated functionality writing the batch files/ jobs like sending mail with test results after running the test scripts and automated the functionality of sending mail with details, after updating particular table Created many tools like Task Scheduler, Purge tool, etc. for making the client job easier Excellent problem solving and debugging skills, Quick Learner, Possesses the ability to communicate effectively, take-up responsibilities and TEMPhas excellent analytical and logical skills. Worked individually and as a part of large teams adhering to strict quality assurance guidelines. Good Analytical & communication skills TECHNICAL SKILLS Domains: Banking, Insurance, AML, Financial and Energy & Petrochemicals Programming Languages/Markup Languages/Frameworks: C, C#.NET, ASP.Net2.0/3.5, MVC4/5, jQuery, AJAX, Entity framework, JavaScript, Web Services, WCF, Web API, ADO.NET, LINQ, MS-Azure, Angular2/4/5, Responsive-Bootstrap, Typescript, JSON, XML, HTML5, CSS3, .Net Framework 2.0/3.5/4.0 Operating System: Windows 98, 200x, Windows XP Hosting Environments/Methodology: IIS, MS-Azure Cloud, Waterfall, Agile Scrum methodology Tools: /DB/Packages/Servers: Visual Studio 2012,2013,2015, SQL-Server 2005, 2008, 2012, Oracle 9i, 10g, TFS, GIT, IIS, JIRA, Fiddler, Octopus, MS-Test, ReSharper, Gulp, Grunt, Webpack, ServiceNow, NUnit, Type mock PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Charlotte, NC Senior Technology Specialist Responsibilities: Interacting with customers and understanding their business needs Delivering the code as per requirements Performing the UI design tasks using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery Handling the work requests depending requirements Developing the applications based on MVC architecture. Developing supported modules/applications using 3-layer (UAL, BAL and DAL) architecture Estimating the required time for the Change Requests Developing the new requirement as per business needs Implemented the Forms Authentication mechanism and Authorization asper needs Created and consumed WCF and Web API services as per the requirements Using the test-driven development using type mock for the better code maintenance Writing the TDD and Doing the code reviews for code optimization Modifying the existing SPs and written the new stored procedures as per requirements Creating Tables, Constraints, Stored Procedures, Indexes, Views, Triggers, Cursors, Temporary Tables, etc. Using the TFS (Team foundation Server) for version control for the code maintenance Preparing TSD and UTP and other documents for project documentation Bug fixing and performing the Unit testing and used the ADO.NET, Entity Framework to connect database. Written Optimized SQL Queries using joins for database operations Having daily stand up meetings as working under Agile Scrum methodology For authentication, used specific encryption/decryption algorithm Data binding is extensively used to bind various server controls Using ASP.NET caching mechanisms, wherever required to avoid multiple hits to the server Covered all scenarios to handle the exceptions and implemented the logging mechanism too Creating the user controls for removing the repetitive tasks Implementing the client-side validations using server controls (required, range, compare, etc.) and JavaScript, jQuery Developing the Azure Service Bus asper business needs and used the JIRA tool for the defects/bugs maintenance and created the LLD documents, wherever required for the requirements understandings Preparing the Usability document for the user/client convenience Environment: Visual Studio 2015, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, MVC 4, C#, Angular4, WCF, Web API, MS-Azure, SQL SERVER 2012, ORACLE, TFS, GIT, Visual Studio Code, Webpack, JIRA, Type mock, TypeScript, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS Confidential - Bartlesville, OK Senior Software Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in requirement analysis and designing UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, etc. Delivered coding according to requirements using C#, ASP.NET, etc. web technologies Applications developed using 3-layer (UAL, BAL and DAL) architecture for the easy maintenance Involved in creation of stored procedures, functions, tables, Indexes, views, triggers, cursors, and temporary tables. Involved in the Preparation of TDS and UTP and Usability documents asper needs Used the TFS (Team foundation Server) version control tool for the project code Performed Unit Testing, Test Driven Development using Nunit and Type mock Worked for the incidents created by clients on ServiceNow Created and consumed Web API and WCF services asper business needs Used the ADO.NET for database related operations like (DDL, DML, TCL) create, insert, update, etc. Written Optimized SQL Queries using joins for database operations Conducted the regular meetings with team and client ASP.NET Caching mechanisms (Output, fragment, data) used, wherever required to avoid repetitive hits to the server Prepared HLD and LLD depending on the requirement for the better maintenance of the project Environment: Visual Studio 2015, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#, Web Services, WCF, Web API, SQL SERVER, Oracle, ServiceNow, Type mock, TFS, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS Confidential - Bartlesville, OK Senior Software Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in requirement analysis and designing UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, etc. Delivered coding according to requirements using C#, ASP.NET, MVC etc. web technologies Applications developed using 3-layer (UAL, BAL and DAL) and MVC architecture for the easy maintenance Worked for both development and support related activities asper client convenience Involved in creation of stored procedures, functions, tables, Indexes, view, cursors, and Temporary tables. Involved in the Preparation of TDS and UTP and Usability documents asper needs Used the TFS (Team foundation Server) version control tool for the project code Performed Unit Testing, Test Driven Development using Nunit and Type mock Worked for the incidents created by clients on ServiceNow Created and consumed Web API and WCF services asper business needs Used the ADO.NET for database related operations like (DDL, DML, TCL) create, insert, update, etc. Written Optimized SQL Queries using joins for database operations Conducted the regular meetings with team and client ASP.NET Caching (Output, fragment, data) mechanisms used, wherever required to avoid repetitive hits to the server Prepared Lower Level Design (LLD) depending on the requirement for the better maintenance of the project Environment: Visual Studio 2015, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#, MVC, Web Services, WCF, Web API, SQL SERVER, Oracle, ServiceNow, Type mock, TFS, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS Confidential - Bloomberg, IL Senior Software Engineer Responsibilities: Performed the tasks of requirement analysis Performed the UI design tasks using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, etc. Prepared the Technical Design Specification and Unit Test Plan document Prepared the estimates for the CRs (Change Requests) asper client needs Delivered coding according to requirement as per customer standards Interacted with onsite team members/client directly Created the required stored procedures, cursors, tables, views Worked for creation of UML diagrams for the better project maintenance Used the GIT version control for the project code maintenance Developed the applications based on MVC architecture. Created and consumed Web Services and WCF Services asper business needs Used the ADO.NET for database related operations like (DDL, DML, TCL) create, insert, update etc. Written Optimized SQL Queries using joins for database operations Having meetings and discussions with client regularly Performed unit testing using and Test-driven development using Nunit and Type mock User controls are developed to reduce the repetitive tasks Used the JIRA tool for the defect maintenance Environment: Visual Studio 2012, ASP.NET, MVC, C#, Web Services, WCF, Web API, SQL SERVER 2012, Oracle, TFS, NUnit, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS Confidential Associate Consultant Responsibilities: Performed the tasks of requirement analysis Performed tasks of designing screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, etc. Conducted the regular meetings with team and client for clarifications on requirements Prepared Technical Specification Documents and Unit Test Plan documents Delivered the coding as per requirements using C#, ASP.NET, Web API, WCF, etc. technologies Developed the Asynchronous calls using Ajax technology Implemented the Forms Authentication mechanism Followed oracle standards in each stage of SDLC process for the better maintenance of the project Involved in creation of stored procedures, tables, views, cursors, indexes, temporary tables, etc. Prepared the Usability document for the client or user interaction of the application Performed Unit Testing and Fixed the defects using JIRA tool Used the TFS (Team foundation Server) version control toll for the project code maintenance Used the ADO.NET for database related operations like (DDL, DML, TCL) create, insert, update etc. Written Optimized SQL Queries using joins for database operations Developed the applications based on MVC and 3 Tier architecture for the better maintenance. Created resource (.res) extension files for managing the display of different terms in different languages Created and consumed Web Services and WCF Services asper business needs ASP.NET caching (Output, fragment, data) mechanisms used, wherever required instead of hitting the server every time Prepared HLD and LLD depending on the requirement for the better maintenance of the project Environment: Visual Studio, ASP.NET, C#, Web Services, Web API, WCF, SQL SERVER, Oracle, TFS, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery HTML, CSS 