SUMMARY Over 8 years of experience in IT industry comprising of delivery management, design, development, release & deployment and cloud implementation. Developed the full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Methodologies & Validations to ensure the Quality Assurance Control. Expertise in Agile Testing Methodologies &Software Test Life Cycle (STLC) Proficient level of experience on Devops tools like Git, SVN, Perforce, ClearCase, Ant, Maven, Gradle, Nexus, Jfrog, Jenkins, Hudson, Team city, TFS, Chef, Puppet, Ansible and Docker also Expertise in cloud automation using AWS cloud Formation Templates Expertise in Branching, Merging, Tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like GIT and Subversion (SVN) on Linux platforms Expertise with build automation tools like Ant, Maven and Gradle and also Administrated and configured Jfrog and Nexus Repository Manager for Maven builds Implemented Jenkins, Bamboo and TFS for continuous integration and for End - to-End automation for all build and deployments Implemented Puppet modules to automate the installation and configuration for a broad range of services. Configured and managed Puppet master server and experience in updating and creating modules and pushing them to puppet clients Hands on experience in Writing Chef Cookbooks for various DB configurations to modularize and optimize end product configuration and developed Chef for server provisioning and automating the infrastructure and also Implemented Chef Recipes for Deployment on build on internal Data Centre Servers Hands on experience with Ansible Playbooks, modules and roles and Set up Continuous Integration for major releases in Jenkins Implemented on AWS platform and its dimensions of scalability including EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling Ensured data integrity and data security on AWS technology by implementing AWS best practices and Created Security groups and worked with Access Control Lists (ACLs), snapshots and Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) of the instances for backup and creating clone instances Worked with AWS Cloud Formation Templates, terraform along with Ansible to render templates and Murano with Heat Orchestration templates in Open Stack Environment Built S3 buckets, managed policies for S3 buckets and used S3 bucket and Glacier for storage, backup Expertise in Server infrastructure development on AWS Cloud and Microsoft Azure Implemented on AWS platform and its dimensions of scalability including Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation and OPS Work and also worked on operational support activities to ensure availability of customer websites hosted on AWS cloud infrastructure using Virtual private cloud (VPC) and public cloud Dockerized applications by creating Docker images from Dockerfiles and also handled large volumes of container clusters with Docker swarm and kubernetes and also worked on several prototype projects involving clustered container orchestration and management Worked with Bug Tracking tools like JIRA and HP Quality centre Integration, deployment and automation of application servers PHP, Tomcat, Web Logic across Linux platforms Expertise in Querying RDBMS such as Oracle, MYSQL and SQL Server by using PL/SQL for data integrity Hands on experience in writing Bash, Perl, Python, Ruby scripting on Linux Linux/Unix system administrator on Redhat EL, 5.x, 6.x, CentOS 4.x, 5.x and VMware environment and also Maintained, trouble shooted Red Hat Linux and Windows platforms including subsystems of Linux like Kernels Involved in migrating physical Linux/Windows servers to cloud (AWS) and testing Excellent written and verbal communication skills, strong organizational skills with project Planning, and a hard-working team player. TECHNICAL SKILLS Cloud computing: Amazon Web Services, Azure, Open stack Automation Tools: Ansible, Chef and Puppet Scripting Languages: Python, Perl and Shell scripting SCM tools: SVN, GIT, Clearcase Web/AppServers: Apache, Nginx, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, Jboss, LAMP and Jetty Networking: DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP, SMTP, LDAP Build Tools: ANT, Maven and Jenkins Tracking Tools: Service Now, Jira, ClearQuest Database Servers: MYSQL Server, Oracle and MONGODB Monitoring Tools: Nagios and Splunk Version control tools: Git and SVN Virtualization/Container: Docker and VMware PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Melbourne, FL Configuration Release manager Responsibilities: As Cloud and DevOps Engineer, I am responsible for managing AWS resources in cloud and maintain Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) pipeline for fast paced robust application development environment. Implemented AWS solutions using S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, and Auto-scaling groups, Optimized volumes and EC2 instances and Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plug-in to deploy to AWS. AWS Cloud management using Chef Automation and automated the cloud deployments using chef, python and AWS Cloud Formation Templates using along with Ansible to render templates and Murano with Heat Orchestration templates in Open Stack Environment. Configured AWS IAM and Security Groups in Public and Private Subnets in VPC Managed IAM accounts (with MFA) and IAM policies to meet security audit & compliance requirements and worked as Admin. Provided high durability of the available data using data storage in the AWS S3 bucket, versioning S3, lifecycle policies. Also, webhosting the data from the S3 bucket by creating URL's. Experience in designing and implementing continuous integration system using Jenkins and Bamboo by creating Python and Perl scripts. Implemented continuous integration and deployment using various CI tools like Jenkins, Bamboo and Hudson. Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, Node.js, Python on familiar servers like Apache, Nginx, Tomcat Used Terraform as infrastructure as code, execution plans, resource graph and change automation. Managed AWS infrastructure as code using Terraform. Deployed and configured Elasticsearch, Logstash for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and Cloud Watch. Working on Openstack nova, setup monitoring on kubernetes, New Relic for application performance and sumo logic for log monitoring performance. Installed Workstation, Bootstrapped Nodes, Wrote Recipes and Cookbooks and uploaded them to Chef Server, Managed On-site OS Applications, Services, Packages using Chef as well as AWS for EC2, S3 & ELB with Chef Cookbooks. Worked on Ansible setup, managing hosts file, Using YAML linter, authoring various playbooks and custom modules with Ansible. Created inventory in Ansible for automating the continuous deployment and wrote playbooks using YAML scripting and developing automated process for code builds and deployments Jenkins, Ant, Maven Written Terraform templates, Chef Cookbooks pushed them onto Chef for configuring EC2 Instances and Solved Gateway time issue on ELB and moved all the logs to S3 Bucket by using Terraform. Configuring the Docker containers and creating Docker files for different environments. Used Jenkins and pipelines to drive all micro services builds out to the Docker-registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes. Creating clusters using Kubernetes and worked on creating many pods, replication controllers, deployments, labels, health checks and ingress by writing Yaml files. Writing Helm Charts, Kubernetes Yaml files for deployment of micro services into kubernetes clusters. Creating Advance Jenkins Pipeline with Jenkins Pipeline Scripted Syntax to Trigger Other Remote Jobs on Other Jenkins Masters. Automated the deployment of Java and .Net applications with the use of Jenkins. Installed MySQL on to Linux OS, and created user accounts to support the enterprise environment. Automating Jenkins Pipelines with Build Part with Open shift and Automating Test Cases of Sanity and smoke tests. Responsible of installing, updating, diagnosing and troubleshooting the issue tracking and project management application, learning agile methodology by JIRA. Installed, tested and deployed monitoring solutions with Splunk Installation and configuration of Linux servers using kick start & support for various applications, which on Linux followed by performance tuning, patching and maintenance. Sr.Devops Engineer Confidential - Indianapolis, Indiana Responsibilities: Build and improve the reliability and performance of cloud applications and cloud infrastructure deployed on Amazon Web Services. Install and configure Apache, Nginx and WordPress on Ubuntu and Amazon Linux instances. Involved in Installing Jenkins on a Linux machine and created a master and slave configuration to implement multiple parallel builds through a build farm. Good Experience writing Cookbooks and Recipes using Industry Best Practices for both Deployment Automation and Configuration Management. Patched all Windows servers and workstations with updates through WSUS server with Company standards and deployed using Admin console into WebLogic Application Servers and maintained configuration files for each application for build purpose on different environments. Used Jenkins to perform automated Builds and Deployments and an Expertise in User Management and Plugin Management for Jenkins. Deployed the applications to Tomcat Application Server and static content to apache web servers and also created local, virtual repositories in Jfrog Artifactory and integrated with Jenkins Managed Artifactory repositories to download the artifacts during the build. Expertise in End-to-End, Build, Release Management process for the various clients using Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Gradle. Managed and optimize the Continuous Delivery tools like Jenkins and involved in Red hat Linux patching using Repository servers and perform Linux kernel upgrade on x86 HW. Good knowledge in virtualization using VMWARE ESX 3.5, 4.0 for Red hat Linux and Solaris x 86 platforms and created users, manage user permissions, maintain User & File System quota on Red hat Linux and Solaris. Installed and configured Red Hat Linux Kickstart and Installing of puppet master, agents, writing manifests and pushing them to agents for Application deployments as part of CI/CD practices Used Puppet to oversee Web Applications, Configuration Files, Data Base, Commands, Users Mount Points and Packages. Automated to manage VMs across multiple cloud platforms using puppet and also developed a continuous deployment pipeline using Jenkins, Chef, and Ruby/shell scripts Worked with Chef Environment, Installing Workstation, Bootstrapping Nodes, setting up chef server, bundling recipes into cookbooks and uploading them to Chef-server Experience in migration of consumer data from one production server to another production server over the network with the help of Bash and Perl scripting. Knowledge on Unix/Linux shell scripting. Knowledge of operating system, network, and compiler concepts. Experience with build tools Ant and Maven for writing build.xmls and pom.xmls respectively DevOps Engineer Confidential -Tucson, Arizona Responsibilities: Developed and supported the Software Release Management and procedures and performed all necessary day-to-day Subversion/GIT support for different projects. Responsible for design and maintenance of the Subversion/GIT Repositories, views, and the access control strategies. Support for Microsoft IIS, and Solaris web infrastructure and deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure. Hands on experience with Microsoft Azure Cloud services, Storage Accounts and Virtual Networks. Experience in Azure Fabric Services. Designed and implemented Subversion and GIT metadata including elements, labels, attributes, triggers and hyperlinks and also deployed System Centre Operation Manager (SCOM) 2005 Implemented &maintained the branching and build/release strategies utilizing Subversion/GIT Involved in periodic archiving and storage of the source code for disaster recovery. Worked closely with developers to pinpoint and provide early warnings of common build failures. Used ANT and MAVEN as a build tools on java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code. Automated build and release management process including monitoring changes between releases and also deployed the Java applications into web application servers like Web logic. Executed user administration and maintenance tasks including creating users and groups, reports and queries. Worked as a system administrator for the build and deployments process on the enterprise server and documented project's software release management procedures with input decisions. Developed, maintained, and distributed release notes for each scheduled release and provided periodic feedback of status and scheduling issues to the management. Build Microservices using Spring Boot and integrated with other microservices internally using Rest-Template Working Experience on Azure Storage, SQL Azure and also in different PaaS Solutions with Web, and worker Roles and Azure Web Apps Track of all the releases and request of the developers through Infrastructure management tool and used continuous integration tool like Anthill proto automate the daily processes Utilized Azure SQL database, Web API, azure active directory, Azure Websites. Designed and developed 3 tier web applications hosted in Azure Tested and Deployed existing security patches via Microsoft In tune for workstations. Expertise in Azure infrastructure management (Azure Web Roles, Worker Roles, SQL Azure) Script, debug and automate PowerShell scripts to reduce manual administration tasks and cloud deployments. Created views and appropriate meta-data, performed merges, and executed builds on a pool of dedicated build machines. Used various tools to such as Subversion, GIT, Anthill pro, Java/J2EE, ANT, MAVEN, JIRA, LINUX, XML, Windows XP, IIS, Windows Server 2003, Web logic, TFS, SCOM, MY SQL, Shell scripts/Ruby Build /Release Engineer Confidential - Cleveland, OH Responsibilities: Participated in the release cycle of the product, which involved environments like Development, SIT, QA, UAT and Production Responsible for the building and deploying the artifacts into DEV, SIT and QA Environments. Ansible tower to set up a Continuous Delivery pipeline using Antifactory. Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability. Used Subversion as version Control for maintaining the versions Enabled Continuous Delivery through Deployment into several environments of Development, Test and Production using Maven Created GIT configuration record for builds using derived objects generated during build audit process and Performed biweekly build cycle and testing processes Enabling customers to better manage software development, deployments and infrastructure with tools such as Jenkins Used Maven to automate the build process and configured and automated the Jenkins Build jobs for Continuous Integration. Used Apache Tomcat as application server for deploying the artifacts Managed and fixing the deployment framework issues for Azure DBs in the production Ownership for Azure SQL server DB deployment & managed the continues integration & continues deployment Developed UNIX for the purpose of manual deployment of the code to the different environments and E-mail the team when the build is completed. Managed & performed environment related configuration changes as a part of deployment. Coordinated application releases with Development, DBA and Project Management teams. Coordinated Release effort amongst various teams (Integration, QA, Testing, and Business Analysis) in geographically separated environment and served as a partial administrator for UNIX machines for Dev Environments Attended the Minor/Major Event change control meetings to get necessary approvals for the deployment request and also used Shell to automate build and deployment Process. Executed the DB Scripts (DML's), which have dependencies on the code on Oracle DB and Deployed J2EE applications to Application servers in an agile continuous integration environment and also automated the whole process Documented the deployment process (Migration Doc) of code to production and used JIRA as Issue Tracking Tool Linux Administrator Confidential Responsibilities: Installation, configuration and Operating System upgrade on Sun Solaris 9,10, AIX 5.X and Red Hat Linux AS 4.0/5.0 on sun Servers Experience in Installation, Configuration, Backup, Recovery, Maintenance, Support of RHEL, Ubuntu and Windows. Experience and Knowledge on Logical volume manager (LVM), creating disk partitions, setting up file systems and mounting the file systems and unmounting them. Installed and updated different packages using rpm and YUM. Implementation and administration of VMware ESXi 5.x, vCenter for running Red Hat Linux, windows Servers on Production and Development. Worked on various troubleshooting issues such as pinging to the Backup Server, Boot related problems, Server down etc and expertise in build automation tool like Jenkins. Knowledge of source code repository administration along with build tools like Git, Git Hub, and Svn and Working knowledge with SQLSERVER, MYSQL. Administrating and managing windows servers including configuration and troubleshooting of Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, NFS, SAMBA, IIS. Good exposure to Configuration Management policies and practices with regards to SDLC; along with automation of scripting using BASH/Shell scripting. Used ANT and MAVEN as a build tools on java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code. Primary duties include Build and Deployment of the java applications onto different environments Dev, QA and UAT and also used defect-tracking tool Service now. Experienced in writing shell/bash scripts to automate the administrative tasks using Cron jobs and managing them in repository using GIT. Troubleshoot backup issues, perform manual backups & restore using VERITAS Net Backup. Ability to work in an Agile/Scrum environment where systems changes are continuously developed, refactored and delivered to production over small iterations