SUMMARY Over 9+ years of experience in the automating, configuring, and deploying instances in the fields of Data center operations, cloud computing, software configuration management (SCM). Experienced in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with specific focus on the build and release of quality software. Experience in Waterfall, Agile/Scrum. In - depth understanding of the principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM). Administered and Maintained RHEL 4.x, 5.x, 6.x, 7.x and Solaris 8/9, CentOS 5 using kick start based network installation. Expertise in amazon AWS cloud which comprises of services like: EC2, S3, VPC, ELB, RDS, IAM, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Elastic Beanstalk, Security Groups. Proficient in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, lambda, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, IAM, S3, and R53. Implemented Amazon EC2 setting up instances, virtual private cloud (VPCs), and security groups. Set-up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket. Design EC2 instance architecture to meet high availability application architecture and security parameters. Create AWS instances via Jenkins with EC2 plugin and integrated nodes in Chef via knife command line utility. Worked with AWS IAM service creating new IAM users & groups, defining roles and policies and Identity providers. Developed the infrastructure used to host a production SaaS application usingCloud Formation, Chef and OpsWorks. Shaped alarms and trigger points in Cloud Watch based on thresholds and monitored the server's performance, CPU Utilization, disk usage. DevOps experience with CHEF, PUPPET, AWS (OPS work) and OpenStack. Experience with “Infrastructure as a code” tools like Terraform and AWS Cloud formation and integrating them with Jenkins builds to achieve end-to-end automation. Experience in branching, tagging, and handling the version across the environments using Software Configuration Management (SCM) tools like Subversion (SVN) and GIT. Producing Linux Virtual Machines with VMware Virtual Center (ESXI), hypervisor-v, PHP Virtual Box. Ability to build deployment, build scripts and automated solutions using scripting languages such as Shell scripting (kasha, Bash), Python, Ruby, PHP PERL. Worked on web servers like Apache and application servers like Web logic, Tomcat, WebSphere, JBOSS to deploy code. Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring, and maintaining for continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Good Knowledge on container management using Docker in creating images.Worked on Docker container snapshots, attaching to a running container removing, image managing, directory structures. Wide experience with software Build automation and standardization tools like ANT, Maven. Good knowledge in CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) methodologies. Experience in installing Firmware Upgrades, Kernel patches, system configuration, and performance alteration on Unix/Linux systems. Worked on Configuration Management tool Ansible. Created &modified playbooks into Rackspace. Familiar with network tool Nagios. Experience in Writing Chef Recipes to automate our build/deployment process and do an overall process development to any manual processes. Developed Chef Cookbooks and Recipes to manage systems configuration. Skill of database technology like SQL, PLSQL, MySQL including NoSQL databases. Familiar with concepts of MS Azure, Rack Space, and Open Stack Cloud Based Technologies. Installed and maintained XEN & VMware servers with multiple VM's, running a multi VLAN Physical & VM environment. Installed & configured Cassandra cluster &CQL on cluster and upgraded Cassandra cluster to new releases. Experience in Bug Tracking tool like JIRA, BUGZILLA. Hands on experience with the AWS CLI and SDKs/API tools. Installed and configured MongoDB for an enterprise application to analyze the big data requirements. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: Linux Red Hat (4.x, 5.x, 6.x), Linux CentOS, Ubuntu, Unix, Windows 2000/2003/XP/VISTA/7, AIX. Version Control Tools: SVN, GIT, GITHUB, TFS, CVS and IBM Rational Clear Case. Web/Application Servers: Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere and JBOSS. Automation Tools: Jenkins/Hudson, Build Forge and Bamboo. Build Tools: Maven, Ant and MS Build. Configuration Tools: Chef, Puppet and Ansible. Databases: Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c, DB2, MS Access and SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2005, Mongo, Dynamo, RedShift. Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, Remedy, HP Quality Center and IBM Clear Quest. Scripting: Shell, Bash, PowerShell, Perl, Ruby and Python. Virtualization Tools: Docker, VM virtual Box and VMware. Monitoring Tools: Nagios, Cloud watch, Splunk. Cloud Platform: AWS EC2, VPC, ELB, RDS,Route 53, ECS, EBS, Cloud Formation AWS Config and S3, Microsoft Azure. Languages: Scripting Language ANT, NANT, Shell, Bash and Python Programming Languages C/C++, Java, C#.Net, VB.Net, PHP and PL/SQL. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE AWS Admin Confidential, Moline, IL Responsibilities: Contributes to and support the corporate adoption of the DevOps methodology and agile project management. Provided design and engineering support towards the successful delivery of IT's cloud project portfolio. Participate in deep architectural discussions to ensure solutions are designed for successful deployment, security, cost effectiveness and high availability in the cloud Design, implement, and test disaster recovery and business continuity architecture. Building CI/CD pipelineautomationin Jenkins with scripting languages such as Groovy and Python. Create and implementautomationin the form of infrastructure as code for cloud platform solutions using Cloud Formation templates. Ensure all infrastructure components meet proper performance and capacity standards. Worked on architecting and implementing cloud based solutions with robust Business Continuity and Disaster Recover requirements for ArcGIS application Created CloudFormation user data for ArcGIS application in Linux Designing, building, andautomatingsolutions utilizing AWS services such as EC2, S3, RDS, KMS, Route 53, Lambda, IAM, ECS and API Gateway Working with cloudautomationtools such as Terraform and AWS Cloud Formations. Worked on scoping down the IAM polices (human and system) to provide access at resource level both for Human Role and Jenkins. Automated the application using silent mode steps in the CloudFormation template user data script. Created python scripts using the Rest API’s for server join, portal join, federation for the application ArcGIS. Created Pipeline Jenkins job to compile the CloudFormation temples (user data, configuration and variables) from GitHub and puts the complied temple in S3 and create stack. Working in DevOps team/organizations with applied agile development practices. DevOps Cloud Engineer Confidential, MN Responsibilities: Responsible for Continuous Integration and delivery in development, Quality Analysis, and Production environments and for configuration, maintenance and troubleshooting of projects. Implementedproject management system; trained Scrum Team and Product Owners. Also coached other Scrum Masters in their implementations ofVersion One Support the migration of on-premises application toAWScloud services which involves integrating all applications to cloud with the help of tools such as Jenkins. Supported amigrationeffort (Develop/Test) within an enterprise VMware infrastructure intoAWS Cloud environment Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM, VPC) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and Auto-scaling in AWS Cloud Formation. Created AWS Route53 to route traffic between different regions. Performed S3 buckets creation, policies and on the IAM role based polices and customizing the terraform template. Used MySQL, Dynamo DB and Elastic cache to perform basic database administration. Build out server automation with Continuous Integration - Continuous Deployment tools like Jenkins/Maven for deployment and build management system. Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, Auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable, and flexible systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts. Designed and Implemented a Microservices container CICD solution within AWS leveraging Jenkins, GitLabs, Docker, Ansible and Kubernetes. Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, and IIS. Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates. Installation of Oracle 10.6 on Solaris to creating databases and creating Oracle users. Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources, VPC EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates. Used JSON to createCloud FormationTemplate.Created DNS using Route 53 on hosted zone. Creating Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) with AWSCloud Formation. Working with Elastic Beanstalkfor quick deployment of services such as EC2 instances, Load balancer, and databases on the RDS on the AWS environment. Worked on GIT and Subversion (SVN) version controls.Setting up the GIT and SVN repos for Jenkin build jobs. Responsible for layout design, implementation, using HTML5 and CSS3. Implemented scripts formongoDB import, export, dump and restore Rebuilding and reorganizing indexes at regular intervals for better performance Installation of NoSQL MongoDB on physical machines, Virtual machines. Using Lambda, run code for virtually any type of application or backend service Good Knowledge on container management using Docker in creating images.Worked on Docker container snapshots, attaching to a running container removing, image managing, directory structures. Build Jenkins jobs to create Azure Infrastructure from GitHub repositories containing terraform code. Develop, implement, maintaining new or existing software utilizing a variety of technologies to include: Python, PHP, HTML, JSON andPostgres SQL. Developing and customizing new alarms to existing features using Java Spring Boot. Developed a software test suite that tests file usage, database integrity, and processes restarting frequently using Python, JSON andPostgres SQL. Interacted with support team for requirements. Deploying application using Jenkins server & CI to run the unit tests. Troubleshoot build and release job failures, resolve, work with engineering on resolution. Puppet automation, installing and configured puppet server and agent setup Ability to develop scripts, automates solutions, and build deployment using Scripting languages such as BASH, RUBY and PYTHON. Development of cookbooks on nodes and running CHEF client on them in a Chef environment andChef Recipes to automate infrastructure as a code. Installed and configured configuration tool such as Chef Server / workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes and bootstrapping new infrastructure chef nodes. Developing a continuous delivery PIPELINE with Docker, Jenkins and GITHUB and AWSAMI's. Used ANT and MAVEN as a build tools on java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code. Designed and administrated databases for Oracle and MYSQL to support various web programing tasks Hands on experience in mounting tools like Nagios and Cloud watch in different work environments in real and container workspace. Worked with cluster mode rabbitmq used as message queue in OpenStack. Highly Expertise in Ticketing tool JIRA to track defects and changes for change management. Sr. AWS DevOps Engineer Confidential Responsibilities: Planning, deploying, monitoring, and maintaining Amazon AWS cloud infrastructure consisting of multiple EC2 nodes and VMWare Vm's as required in the environment. Used security groups, network ACLs, Internet Gateways, NAT instances and Route tables to ensure a secure zone for organizations in AWS public cloud. Well Versed with Configuring Access for inbound and outbound traffic RDS services, Dynamo DB tables. Working on Multiple AWS instances, set the security groups, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs, Auto scaling to design cost effective, fault tolerant and highly available systems. Creating S3 buckets and managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and Glacier for Archival storage and backup on AWS. Creating public and private subnets within the VPC and attaching them to the EC2 instances based on the requirement. Extensively involved in infrastructure as code, execution plans, resource graph and change automation using Terraform. Managed AWS infrastructure as code using Terraform. Designed AWS Cloud Formation for monitoring, setting alarms, notifications for EC2 hosts and templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates. Utilize AWS CLI to automate backups of ephemeral data-stores to S3 buckets, EBS and create nightly AMIs for mission critical production servers as backups. Code and developed customElasticSearchJava based wrapper client using the "Jest" API. To facilitate common access, toElasticSearch. Virtualized the servers using the Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs, and configuration automation using Docker containers. Written Chef Cookbooks for various DB configurations to modularize and optimize product configuration, converting production support scripts to Chef Recipes and AWS server provisioning using Chef Recipes. Implemented CI/CD allowing for deploy to multiple client Kubernetes/AWS environments. Designed and createdPostgres Sqltables, the table privilege, and custom views. CreatedPostgres Sqlfunctions and triggers of varying complexity. Used Nagios as a monitoring tool to identify and resolve infrastructure problems before they affect critical processes and worked on Nagios Event handlers in case of automatic restart of failed applications and services. Configuring, implementing, and supporting High Availability (Replication) with Load balancing (sharding) cluster of Mongo dB having TB's of data Designing & implementing Sharding and indexing strategies for huge data sets Worked on Development, Storage and Network teams in installation and administration of MongoDB in the IT Enterprise Environment Implemented read preferences in MongoDB replica set. Configured hidden members in replica set Migrate MongoDB Sharded/Replica cluster for one datacenter to another without downtime Add / remove replica and shard nodes in Mongo dB Cluster as needed Installation of NoSQL MongoDB on physical machines, Virtual machines as well as AWS Expert Knowledge in Bash Shell Scripting, Automation of cron Jobs. Implementing a continuous delivery framework using Jenkins, Chef, and Maven in Linux. Worked in building Puppet enterprise modules using puppet DSL to automate infrastructure provisioning and configuration automation across the environments Managed profiles for various technology stacks in Puppet Designed &implemented Subversion &GIT metadata like elements, labels, attributes, triggers &hyperlinks Worked on Configuration Management tool Ansible. Created &modified playbooks into Rackspace. Setup IIS servers and administered &configured IIS server on Windows 2008. Involved in environment provisioning solutions using Docker, Vagrant, Red Hat Satellite Ability to implement and deploy Azureofferings including both the IaaS and PaaS offering Installed &configured Cassandra cluster &CQL on cluster and upgraded Cassandra cluster to latest releases Installed and configured Nexus repository manager for sharing artifacts between internal teams. Implemented a GIT mirror for SVN repository, which enables users to use both GIT and SVN. Setting up the GIT and SVN repos for Jenkin build jobs. Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. Configure and ensure connection to RDS database running on MySQL engines. Created Jira issues to prioritize and act per issue sensitivity. AWS DevOps Engineer Confidential, Chicago, IL Responsibilities: Involved in Build and Deployment of Java applications onto different environments -Dev, QA, and UAT &Prod Integrated Maven with Shell scripts created in Bash to automate the deployments for Java built applications Deployed Puppet, Puppet Dashboard & Puppet DB for configuration management to prevailing infrastructure Continued monitoring & alerting of production & corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud watch Developed build scripts using ANT and migrated to MAVEN as build tool to produce build artifacts like war/jar files. Experience in Open stack administration to create new users, Tenants, Roles and Assign Resource Quotas to projects and roles by keystone command line client. Used Atlassian products like JIRA for issue tracking and code integration to plan and cooperate, used Dev tools to host, review, test, and deploy team's GIT and Mercurial code. Executed automated local user provisioning in instances created in Open stack cloud from Chef Recipes. Used Chef and other configuration tools to deploy consistent infrastructure code across multiple environments. Involved in the automated deployment of Open stack Clouds in data centers and availability zones Created & managed provider & public networks shared by projects/tenants in Open stack Neutron. Imported &managed applications in Subversion (SVN) and trained end-users of SVN to use the tool Automated the Build and Deployment process with WebLogic server. Implemented the file sharing on the network by organizing NFS on the system to share critical resources. Integrated Subversion (SVN) & Maven with Jenkins/Hudson for the continuous integration process. Accomplished system installation, troubleshooting, maintenance, and performance tuning, managing storage resources, network configuration to fit application and database requirements. Set up intranet Web Servers with APACHE, multiple-site management with named-based virtual Hosting & access control with HTTP authentication. Created Maven, Perl & UNIX scripts for Build and Release activities in QA, Production & Staging environments. Created &deployed a tool to automate branch &project creation in SVN using Chef, Perl & Puppet scripts. Build Release Engineer Confidential Responsibilities: Setting up and configuring of Linux (Redhat) and Solaris servers/workstations for clients. Administered and Maintained RHEL 4.x, 5.x, 6.x and Solaris 8/9, CentOS 5 using kick start based network installation. Configured and managed Jump Start Servers on Solaris and Kick Start Server on RHEL. Administered Linux Servers for Several functions including Apache Tomcat Server, Mail server and MYSQL databases in both development and production. Configuring the NFS servers, set up servers in network environment and configuring FTP/NTP/NIS servers, clients for various departments and clients. Worked with QA team to in Load and Integration testing of J2EE applications in JBOSS application servers. Configure servers to use HTTP, DNS, DHCP, NFS, NetBackup, and Storage Disk configuration. Involved in support databases and performed MS SQL upgrades running on Windows servers. Troubleshooting Linux network problems. Performance tuning and troubleshooting of the application arising out of ticketing system in remedy. Familiar with managing Cloud Technologies like RACKSPACE, since the company started using Rackspace to run its virtual banking platform and meet PCI (payment card industry) data security standard compliance for its development and production environment. Installed and configured DNS, DHCP, WEB (Apache, IIS), Mail (SMTP, IMAP, POP3), and File servers on RHEL and Solaris. Experience with PowerShell, Bash Shell Scripting to automate system administration jobs. Configuration of Secured Shell (SSH) in Linux servers. Extensive knowledge of Linux/Windows based systems including hardware, software, and applications. Installation of Firewall Checkpoint and configured IP Filter, to protect Linux System that was placed on the internet. Created Branches, Labels and performed Merges in Stash and GITHUB. Proposed and implemented branching strategy suitable for agile development in Subversion. Developed build and Deployment Scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. Implemented Maven builds to automate JAR and WAR. Installed and administered Artifactory repository to deploy the artifacts generated by Maven and to store the dependent jars, which are used during the build. Integrated GITHUB into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process. Used Jenkins for Automating Builds and Automating Deployments. Managed Build results in Jenkins and Deployed using workflows. Maintain and track inventory using Jenkins and set alerts when the servers are full and need attention. Used JIRA for change control & ticketing. Developed automation and deployment utilities using Ruby, Bash, PowerShell, Python. Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems Unix/Linux Administrator Confidential Responsibilities: My responsibilities as Unix/Linux System Administrator are management of UNIX, RHEL and SUSE as blend of systems architecture and development. Installing software packages on RHEL 4.x/5.x and Solaris 8/9. Build and Installed PXE boot server, DHCP server, Kickstart and XCAT server to load OS automatically on test machines in the LAB environment. Operated on User and Group management, Security and access control using LDAP. Installing, Configuring and Maintaining the DNS, DHCP, NIS, LDAP, and FTP Servers. Installing and upgrading of packages and patches configuration management, service pack, version control and reviewing connectivity issue concerning security problem. Used FTP, Samba Protocol to transfer data between servers for code drops. Installed and configured SSL & SSH for secured access on Linux systems. Administer and troubleshootRSATechnologies server support for remote Cisco VPN Clients Responsible for creating & maintaining users accounts onRSAServer Installed and unassigned software & hardware tokens onRSAServers Resolving TCP/IP network access problems for the clients. Network traffic control, IPsec, Quos, VLAN, Proxy, Radius integration on Cisco Hardware via RHEL software. Experience in Bash Shell Scripting to automate system administration jobs. Offer 24/7 on call-support and resolve operator requests regarding system hardware, software, and network issues. Responsible for supportingLinuxservers for production, development, and testing. User Account Management, Group Account Management, configuring dumb terminals, adding modems, formatting, and partitioning disks, manipulating swap, local and remote printer management, taking and restoring backup, scheduling jobs. Automation of jobs through crontab and autosys. Performance tuning and preventive maintenance. Performed daily backup. Performed addition of Swap space at run time. Performed installation and configuration of LDAP. Resolving TCP/IP network access problems for the clients. Adding servers to domain and managing the groups and user in AD, installing and configuring send mail. Performed administrative tasks such as system start-up/shutdown, backups, Printing, Documentation, User Management, Security, Network management, configuration of dumb terminals. Troubleshooting backup and restore problems and performed day-to-day trouble shooting for the end users onLinuxbased servers. Develop, Maintain, update various scripts for services (start, stop, restart, recycle, cron jobs) UNIX based shell, Perl. Configured and maintained NIS, NFS servers onLinux. Setting up Oracle 8 server inLinux/Unix environment.