SUMMARY Overall 8+ years in the field of Information Technology, dedicated to optimization experienced DevOps Engineer understands the combination of development and Operations to deliver the required product of code to the end users. Managed Linux and Windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 using Chef Server. Configured and monitored distributed and multi - platform servers using chef. Excellent at defining Chef Server and workstation to manage and configure nodes. Developed Chef Cookbooks to manage systems configuration. 5 years of experience in core AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, EBS, Route53, VPC, Auto scaling etc.) and deployment services (Elastic Beanstalk, Ops Works and Cloud Formation) and security practices (IAM, Cloud watch and Cloud trail). Strong Knowledge in understanding the principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) in Agile/Scrum methodologies Exposed to all aspects of software development life cycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Planning, Developing, Testing and implementing and Post-production analysis of the projects Experience in managing AWS VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) environment with around 200+ Linux and Ubuntu instances. Excelled on creating AMI (AWS Machine Images) that utilizes ELB (Elastic Load Balancer) and Auto Scaling. That Auto Scaling fired up new resources those will by default bootstrapped with the Chef-Server Working with SCM, SVN, GIT and Maven including branching and merging strategies. Experience as a Build and Release engineering in automating, building, deploying, and releasing of code from one environment to other environment. Extensive knowledge in design and development of Java/J2EE applications using programming languages like Java, Web technologies like HTML5/CSS3, Java script and frameworks like Hibernate and Spring Expert in deploying the code through web application servers like Web Sphere/ Web Logic/ Apache Tomcat/ JBoss Extensively worked on Hudson and Jenkins for Continuous Integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments Strong experience in using IBM Urban Code Deploy and Bamboo to integrate build and test tools to automatically deploy and promote new builds Expertise in writing and troubleshooting Shell, Bash, Python Scripts and also C++, Java Scripts Experience in using bug tracking systems like Jira, Bugzilla, HP Quality Center and IBM Clear Quest. Very knowledgeable in regards to DevOps / Automation with Docker and Continuous Deployment procedures using tools such as Ansible, docked-machine, Docker-compose, Mesos, Marathon, etc. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: Linux Red Hat (4.x, 5.x, 6.x), Linux CentOS, Ubuntu, Unix, Windows 2000/2003/XP/VISTA/7, AIX. Version Control Tools: SVN, GIT, GITHUB, TFS, CVS and IBM Rational Clear Case. Web/Application Servers: Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere and JBOSS. Automation Tools: Jenkins/Hudson, Build Forge and Bamboo. Build Tools: Maven, Ant and MS Build. Configuration Tools: Chef, Puppet and Ansible. Databases: Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c, DB2, MS Access and SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2005 Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, Remedy, HP Quality Center and IBM Clear Quest. Scripting: Shell, Bash, Perl, Ruby and Python. Virtualization Tools: Docker, VM virtual Box and VMware. Monitoring Tools: Nagios, Cloud watch, Splunk. Cloud Platform: AWS EC2, VPC, ELB, RDS,Route 53, ECS, EBS, Cloud Formation AWS Config and S3, Microsoft Azure. Languages: Scripting Language ANT, NANT, Shell, Bash and Python Programming Languages C/C++, Java, PHP and PL/SQL. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Novi, MI AWS/Dev Ops Engineer Responsibilities: Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts. Involved in setting up Jira as defect tracking system and configured various workflows, customization and plug-ins for the Jira/issue tracker Analyzed Business Requirements, Functional Requirement & High level Design documents Assisted in migrating the existing data center into the AWS environment. Installed the application on AWS EC2 AMI, Red hat, Ubuntu Instances. Involved in loading data from On-premises data warehouse to AWS's Cloud using different approaches like Spark and AWS Services Create build and deployment plans and schedule per requirement. Attend and update risks to Change & release board meetings. Identify the automation opportunities from the day to operations. Automate the tasks that can be automated by helping developers. Documented the processes in confluence. Prepare the metrics and analyze the work and identify the improvement areas. Responsible for versioning the source code, releasing binary files and tagging on source files and release files. Developed Ansible Recipes to configure, deploy and maintain software components of the existing infrastructure. Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto-scaling groups. Used Ansible to manage Web Applications, Config Files, Database, Users, Mount Points, and Packages. Creation and maintenance of content for the Ansible community, and implementation of Ansible modules based on customer and community requirements. Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, scale and manage docker containers with multiple name paced Extensive experience and knowledge on Jenkins, Build Forge and Docker for continuous integration and end to end automation for all build and deployments. Imported data from oracle to the Cassandracluster using migration scripts in Python and Perl. Develop CI/CD system with Jenkins on Google's Kubernetescontainer environment, utilizing Kubernetes and docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build and test and deploy Implemented automation with Vagrant, Chef on AWS for application testing, deployment, and development. Prepared documentation describing the configuration state of each item that was under CM control. Created and wrote shell scripts (Bash), Ruby, Python and PowerShell for automating tasks. Creating buildsusing power shell Scripts, ANT/Maven scripts manually and automated. Designed and developed automation test scripts using Python. Installed and configured Splunk for log monitoring and also forwarded system stats to Splunk indexer, created dashboards and alerts using this data Migration of over 2500 Applications with 3000+ Databases Setting up private networks and sub-networks using virtual private cloud (VPC) and creating security groups to associate with the networks. Developing automation scripts using EC2 commands. Designing SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) High Availability Environment: AWS (EC2, VPC, ELB, S3, RDS, Cloud Trail and Route Subversion, GIT, GITHUB, Docker, Open Stack, ANT, MAVEN, Jenkins, Chef, Puppet, LINUX, UNIX, Windows XP, SQL. Confidential, Chattanooga, TN AWS/Dev Ops Developer Responsibilities: Involved in migrating physical Linux/Windows servers to cloud (AWS) and test it. Development of Chef recipes using Ruby Script through Knife command-line tool to create Chef cookbooks to manage systems configuration. Expertise in writing new plugins to support new functionality in Terraform. Worked in different software development life cycles using the methodologies like water fall, agile etc. and have great experience with the tools like GITHUB, Jenkins, JIRA, Subversion (SVN) etc. Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Node.js. Created Virtual Private Network, subnets, route tables and security groups to control inbound and outbound traffic. Build servers using AWS: Importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection. Configure and managing daily and hourly scheduled snapshots backup and Restore the data from snapshots if needed. Work on Auto Scaling, Cloud Watch (monitoring), AWS Elastic Beanstalk (app deployments), AWS S3 (storage) and AWS EBS (persistent disk storage). Planning, deployment and tuning of Elastic search for Linux based infrastructure. Implemented and supported creating EC2 instances, S3 storage, Auto Scaling of instances and Cloud Watch Monitoring based on requirements Communication with team members for both Ansible Core and Ansible Tower teams to clarify requirements and overcome obstacles. perations. Implemented and kept up CI environments (Jenkins/Hudson)/Build Forge, performing deployments, Packaging, Build improvement, production rollouts, arranging, defect tracking (JIRA), and root cause analysis, Smoke testing, Operation support and administration conveyance over web/application servers like Jboss, Angular JS, Tomcat and WebLogic. Used Chef to manage Web Applications, Config Files, Database Commands and Packages. Designed and implemented fully automated server build, management, monitoring and deployment solutions spanning multiple platforms, tools and technologies including Jenkins Nodes/Agent, Chef, Puppet, Android, VMware, Amazon EC2. Hands on experience in installing and administrating CI/CD tools like Hudson, Jenkins, Bamboo. Implemented CI using Jenkins and continuous deployment. Extensively worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and for End-to-End automation for all build and deployments. Implement CI/CD tools Upgrade, Backup, Restore, DNS, LDAP and SSL setup. Environment: AWS (EC2, VPC, ELB, S3, RDS, Cloud Trail and Route 53), ANT, Chef, Puppet, Windows/ Linux, SVN, TFS, TCP/IP, Jenkins, Mesos, Marathon, TFS, Web Sphere 6.1.1, PowerShell, AV Standards, Perl Scripts, Shell Scripts, Unix/ Linux environment DevOps Engineer Confidential -Richmond, VA Responsibilities: As member of Release Engineering group, redefined processes and implemented tools for software builds, patch creation, source control, and release tracking and reporting, on UNIX platform. Maintained and administered GIT source code tool. Installed and configured GIT and communicating with the repositories in GITHUB. Support the code builds by integrating with continuous integration tool (Jenkins). Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution. Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check - out process. Designing, creating and maintaining GIT repositories to client specifications. Used Jenkins for automating Builds and Automating Deployments. Managed to deliver specific versions of various components of an application into target environments. Worked with DOCKER for Portable deployment of applications. Modeled the structure for multi-tiered applications orchestrate the processes to deploy each tier. Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. Integrated delivery (CI and CD process) Using Jenkins, Nexus, Yum and puppet. Worked with customers, developers, testing, product management and support staff. In-depth understanding of large complex software systems to isolate defects, reproduce defects, assess risk and understand varied customer deployments. Experience in AWS including deploying new server instances through automation with CHEF and Jenkins. By Using Chef and AWS allowed me to reduce costs for the department and eliminate unwarranted resources. Created various templates and managed various models to set up various Amazon Web Resources using AWS CloudFormation. Worked on ticketing tool Service-Now. Was part of Scrum Meetings and Agile Environment Coordinated with the Offshore and Onshore teams for Production Releases Environment: AWS - EC2, ECS, VPC, Puppet, Jenkins, JIRA, Maven, GIT, AWS, Python, UNIX Shell Scripting, ServiceNow, JIRA, Agile SDLC Confidential DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Developed and implemented Software Release Management strategies for various applications according to the agile process. Design highly available, cost effective and fault tolerant systems using multiple EC2 instances, Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs. Maintained and administered GIT source code tool. Created Branches, Labels and performed Merges in GIT. Use of Docker, Kubernetes and Open shiftto manage micro services for development of continuous integration and continuous delivery Worked on the Deployment, Configuration, Monitoring and Maintenance of Open shiftEnterprise Administration and worked with the management of Open shiftEnterprise resources Established dev ops culture based on Docker and Kubernetestools. Developed processes, tools, automation for Jenkins based software for build system and delivering SW Builds. Troubleshooting and monitoring of various proprietary Acxiom and 3rd party applications using Splunk and Cloud Watch in the Amazon Web Services (AWS) environment. Managed all the bugs and changes into a production environment using the Jira tracking tool. Worked on Creating new EC2 instances on AWS (Amazon web services) Established Puppet Best practices approaches to systems deployment with other tools and managing Puppet as a unit of software deployment and independently version controlled. Installation and configuration of Linux for new build environment. Managed build results in Jenkins and deployed using workflows. Have Experience on Ruby with chef Automation tools. Integration of Puppet with Apache and developed load testing and monitoring suites in Python. Written scripts in Python to automate log rotation of multiple logs from web servers. Worked on building data center with AWS. Installed SVN, GIT, Jenkins images on AWS. Generated scripts in Maven, Perl & Bash Shell for build activities in QA, Staging and Production environments. Puppet Manifests to provision complex multi-node applications composed of Ruby on Rails, Node, Apache, Nginx Passenger, Unicorn, Elastic Search, Hadoop, and MySQL. Also worked in Installing, Configuring and Monitoring using Nagios and GRAPHITE. Assist customers with installation of clean /minimal installs of CentOS and installs of Nagios software Deployment automation, AWS EC2 instance mirroring, WebLogic domain creations and several proprietary middleware installations. Maintain and track inventory using Jenkins and set alerts when the servers are full and need attention. Environment: Git, Chef, AWS, Windows Solaris, UNIX, C++, Java, Eclipse 3.20, Ant, Maven, Jenkins, JBoss Application Server, CVS, Subversion. Confidential Unix/Linux /Systems Administrator Responsibilities: Developed and supported the Software Release Management and procedures using agile/scrum. Installation, configuration and administration of Red Hat Linux servers and support for Servers. Installation, maintenance and regular upgrades of Red Hat Linux Servers using kick start based network installation Provided 24x7 System Administration support for Red Hat Linux 3.x, 4.xservers and resolved trouble tickets on shift rotation basis. Provide the support of building the server, patching, user administration tasks, deployment, software installation, performance tuning and troubleshooting and KVM. Disk and File system management through Solstice Disk Suite on Solaris and other logical volume manager for other flavors of UNIX. Monitoring system performance, tune-up kernel parameter, adding /removing /administering hosts, users, disks on DNS / NIS domain. Configuration of Hardware and Software RAID on Digital & Sun Servers Installation of Oracle Patches and Troubleshooting, creating and modifying application related objects, creating profiles, Users, roles and maintaining system security. Installation and configuration of Oracle 7.x/8.x. Implemented NFS, DNS and NIS under SUN. Wrote bash shell scripts for getting information about various Linux servers Installed and Configured Send Mail Utility on Sun UNIX Servers. Environment: Red Hat Linux 2.6.x, Sun Fire, A5000, JBODs Compaq servers, Solstice Disk Suite, Oracle 7.x/8.x 