SUMMARY 7 years’ experience with Installation, Configuring, Deploying, Trouble shooting, administration and maintenance of .net applications hosted on Windows Servers, IIS, SQL and Azure Deployed Multiple Websites and various web applications (.Net framework version 3.0, 3.5 and 4.0) and web services in IIS 6.0/7.0/8.0 Used deployment tools like Octopus and PowerShell for deployments Experience working with Crystal Reports and SSRS Created build definitions, setup Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployments (CD) in Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) Created Virtual Machines in Azure by authoring ARM templates and managed azure resources using PowerShell Experience working with Azure Storage (Azure Files, Blob Storage, Tables and Queues) Worked on deployment of azure cloud services, web and worker roles in Legacy portal Managed resource groups and created Storage accounts, Virtual Networks, Subnets in Azure using ARM templates and supported SCOM 2012 and Installed and configured SCOM 2007 Server and worked on configuring templates for TFS 2013 Release Manager Worked on migration of on premise servers to Microsoft Azure. Experience creating VM’s, Cloud Services and SQL databases in Windows Azure, deploying application and managing Storage using Azure Storage Explorer Experience using PowerShell and C# to automate daily environment maintenance tasks and deploying applications. Experience in working with SQL Server 2008/2012 like writing queries to retrieve data, checking error logs to fix connectivity issues, fixing SQL job issues, taking backups, restoring databases, deploying and executing SSIS packages Worked on both software (NLB) and hardware (F5 - BigIP) load balancer and configuration according to environment requirements Experienced in using filemon, processmon, perfmon and debugging tools (Debugview) to troubleshoot runtime and performance issues with the platform and application. Experienced with using network tools like tracert, port query, and telnet, Perfmon, Netmon to identify and troubleshoot network issues in a distributed application environment. Worked extensively on virtualization platform using tools like Hyper V, VMware Always interested in learning new technologies and tools, adapt to new environments quickly and ability to communicate well with team meSmbers as well as senior management. Worked on Agile/Scrum operations team that managed 15K Windows servers in 15 domains providing Administration, Security, Configuration Management, and Tier 3 support related to physical, virtual, and cloud deployments of Windows Server 2016, 2012R2, 2012, and 2008R2 OS Was responsible for the administration of Windows 2003/2008/2012 servers and IIS Server clusters in VMware VSphere based Virtual environment. Recently worked on Microsoft Azure and performed functions like Creating virtual machines, installing IIS, setting up cloud services and creating SQL databases Installed, configured, upgraded, and maintained network services, equipment and devices (Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, SSL VPN, SonicWALL Firewall, etc.). Was responsible for the management and monitoring of Microsoft SQL 2005/2008/2012 Database systems and platforms, including backups and restores of corrupt databases. Created, tested and executed SQL shell scripts for task automation. Analyzed, consolidated and tuned databases and servers for optimal efficiency. Managed Exchange mail systems. Managed Microsoft Lync messaging systems. Managed System Center Operations Manager - MS SCOM. Proactively checked server and storage health and responded to monitoring alerts. Troubleshooting and analysis of servers, and associated systems. Managed Infrastructure related projects. Development of installation, configuration, and operational control documentation as well associated procedures. Documented network problems and resolution for future reference. Assisted with normal Help desk related tasks as necessary. Create complex SQL views and stored procedures to join multiple tables for contract data interface files designed contract retention database using sql server technology PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Bethesda MD  DevOps Engineer/Application Support Responsibilities: Worked with Infrastructure and Release management team and provided support for installation and configuration of .net applications on Windows Server 2012/2008R2, IIS 8/7.5 and SQL server 2012/2008 Created build definitions, setup Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployments (CD) in Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) Was responsible for the management and monitoring of Microsoft SQL 2005/2008/2012 Database worked with SQL Server 2008/2012 like writing queries to retrieve data, checking error logs to fix connectivity issues, fixing SQL job issues, taking backups, restoring databases, deploying and executing SSIS packages Created build definitions, and trigger builds in Team Foundation Server before deployments and worked with developer teams for fixing issues Worked on Windows Azure to deploy applications and migrate databases from on premise to azure. Deployed instances on staging and production and troubleshoot issues Worked on deploying .net applications using Octopus, and VSTS Generated reports using SSRS and Crystal Reports Managed System Center Operations Manager - MS SCOM. Directory, DNS, DHCP, SSL VPN, SonicWALL Firewall, etc.). Created build definitions, and trigger builds in VSTS before deployments and worked with developer teams for fixing issues Deployed, maintained, trouble-shoot various .Net applications and web services hosted on various versions IIS web servers. Automated the process for server validations (reboot time, uptime, etc.) after monthly security updates (patching). Involved in end-to-end troubleshooting for any application slowness/ service interruptions. Manage the execution activities for all Infrastructure processes and for supporting the performance tests. Created, tested and executed SQL shell scripts for task automation. Analyzed, consolidated and tuned databases and servers for optimal efficiency. Monitor all activities within the Infrastructure Middle Tier modules. Handle escalated issues and provide synopsis/root causes. Responsible of developing new tools for automation and improving the daily work. Provide suport for issue resolution and documentation. Participate in 24 x 7 on call support as part of a scheduled rotation with other team members. Confidential, Issaquah WA  Windows/IIS Admin Responsibilities: Deployed, maintained, and trouble-shoot various .Net applications and web services hosted on various versions IIS web servers (7.0/7.5/8.0/8.5 )Server and Azure Supported developers during development and test of code in pre-production environments and fixed operational issues after release of code to production. Used deployment tools and PowerShell scripts to deploy multiple websites and performed troubleshooting to deliver working environment Setup bindings, SSL certificates, configurations on IIS Servers and configured featured as per application requirements Involved in end-to-end troubleshooting for any application slowness/service interruptions by looking at IIS Logs, EventViewer, Debug View and F12 Developer tools Created/Deployed VM’s, Cloud Services, SQL Databases and Storage accounts in Windows Azure as part of project to move application to cloud Managed SSL Certificates for all lower and production environment and worked on renewing and setting up certificates with application in IIS Created new virtual machines, installed IIS/SQL, flattened and rebuilt existing machines, upgraded Windows server versions, IIS versions, SQL Server versions and IPAK’s as per application requirements Managed and supported SCOM 2012 and Installed and configured SCOM 2007 Server Installed all required 3rd party tools on Web Servers to create Software baseline for applications Provided root cause analysis for all P1 issues assigned and worked with development teams to fix issues. Coordinating with offshore team to resolve Infrastructure and application related issues Responsible of developing new tools for automation and improving the daily work using PowerShell Provide support for issue resolution and documentation. Participate in 24 x 7 on call support as part of a scheduled rotation with other team members. Confidential, Redmond, WA Systems Engineer Responsibilities: Working as a Windows/IIS Admin with Enterprise Test Configuration Management Team within Confidential Corporation. Deployed, maintained, and trouble-shoot various .Net applications and web services hosted on various versions IIS web servers (7.0/7.5/8.0/8.5 ) Worked on SQL server 2005/2008, creating the databases, roles, security, writing queries, setting up SQL mirroring, running SQL jobs and troubleshooting connectivity and network related issues Setup bindings, SSL certificates, configurations (web.config/app.config) on IIS Servers and configured featured as per application requirements Managed SSL Certificates for all lower and production environment and worked on renewing and setting up certificates with application in IIS Involved in end-to-end troubleshooting for any application slowness/service interruptions by looking at IIS Logs, EventViewer, Debug View and F12 Developer tools Installed .Net, AppFabric, MVC and all required 3rd party tools on Web Servers to create Software baseline for applications Provided root cause analysis for all P1 issues assigned and worked with development teams to fix issues. Coordinating with offshore team to resolve Infrastructure and application related issues Responsible of developing new tools for automation and improving the daily work using PowerShell Provide support for issue resolution and documentation. Participate in 24 x 7 on call support as part of a scheduled rotation with other team members.