SUMMARY IT Professional with around 7 years of experience in Systems and Network administration with a primary focus on installation and administration of Windows Servers, Active Directory Services (WINS, DNS, DHCP), HP, UCS blades. Excellent experience in configuration of Data Domain Storage units in Symantec Net backup. Expertise in Migration Using Quest Migration Manager Tool for Active Directory. Expertise in active directory design and support (GPO s, AD Schema, OU s, LDAP, Sites, Replication, etc). Analysis and remediation of windows 2008R2 environment DNS, Sites and services, Kerberos, Trusts, Exchange 2010, Group policy. Developed application discovery questionnaires, migration flowcharts, workflows, and migration plan templates. Active Directory migration using Quest Migration Manager QMM and RUM. Assisted in designing, implementing and evaluating applications, systems and utilities relevant to Active Directory services Experience in Migrating Users, Groups, Workstations and Application window Servers from Source Domain to Target Administration of user Accounts, Groups, Resources, Security, Backup strategies in window Servers 2003/2008R2/2012 Experience with DCPROMO process and configuring AD Site, OU structure, Site Link, DNS, DHCP, WINS, Global Catalog server, directory services, subnet mask, DNS forwarders, Reverse Lookup. Maintenance and management of Quest Active Roles server. Audit compliance and validation of security groups within Active Directory. Serve as subject matter expert on Quest Active Roles server, Quest Quick Connect. Expertise in managing the users and objects using Identity Manager. Expertise in deploying applications software on user workstations through SCCM console. Expertise in Migrating Group and Exception Policies from one domain to other domain in AD forest. Documentation of all problem tickets and updating knowledge base. TECHNICAL SKILLS Systems: Windows Server  2000/2003/2008 R2/2012R2, NetApp DATA ONTAP Backup: VERITAS Net backup, Replication manager, Recovery point LDAP Directories Active Directory Tools: Quest Migration Manager V8.8 & V8.10, VMware (ESX, GSX, Server and Workstation), Exchange 2010/2013, Quest quick connect, ARS. Workstations: Windows XP, Windows 7 Scripting Languages: Power Shell Databases: SQL server 2000/2005, DB2 and MS Access Networking: DNS, WINS, DHCP, TCP/IP Ticketing: CA Service Desk, Lotus notes, Tracer PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Rancho Cordova, CA Windows/Active Directory Engineer Responsibilities: Successfully Migrated Novell Edir architecture to Windows 2016 R2 x64 Active Directory Single Forest and Domain Architecture. Installed Quest on remote servers, operated QMM and RUM consoles to migrate AD objects, scripting and data manipulation, log review and status reporting. Administration on Quest Active Role Server v6.8, Quest Reporter, Quest Recovery and Quest Change Auditor. Need to gather data for User and computer migration and prepare for the file to be upload in Quest migration manager. Implemented successful migration for 30000s of User, Computer and Group accounts with SID History. Migrating Users, Groups, Workstations and Application windows servers from source domain to Target domain using QMM and AD Domain. Designed process for DNS zone migration from legacy storage to application partition storage Security threat detection and countermeasures, protect from enumeration and scanning Designed and deployed Virtual lab environment based on leading tier 1 hypervisor Cross platform authentication (Unix to Windows) Developed power - shell scripts to rename and resuming the windows after reboot. Developed power-shell scripts to automate the setting of user credentials and activation of windows. Performed Windows servers patching using SCCM console Configure constrained delegation in Active Directory for Kerberos enabled applications Worked on Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) - certificates Troubleshoot Kerberos authentication and constrained delegation Incident and Request management through Citrix Ticketing sysyem. Operating System security hardening of Domain Controllers across the enterprise Developed custom Identity Management component to synchronize Active Directory, LDAP, and legacy systems. Performed cross platform audits of Active Directory objects and user permissions using Identity Manager. Environment: Windows 2008, NetApp 8K series,Outlook 2010/2013,O365, Created AD Group policies, Windows Azure AD,IPv4 configurations, SCCM Console, VMware servers, Identity Management, ADFS,LDAP, Office 365,QMM, Quest ARS,DHCP, DNS and WINS. Confidential, Rancho Cordova, CA System Security Engineer/Access Control Management Responsibilities: Created AD Group policies to Enforce Domain and OU Level Security of Users and Computer objects. Privileged Access Management system deployment, Password vaulting, privileged session recording. Working with Access account provisioning and de-provisioning in the windows environment, Via Active directory and local servers at OS level on Occasion. Part of a team that takes care of Exchange Server 2010,Outlookand Messaging (Lync 2010) issues. Handled Access Account Administration work coming from Internal Customers, Business partners and ACM. Created and managed user accounts as per client automated and manual requests. Handled Access account administration work coming from Access governance team. Maintained accurate access account information within specific Identity Access store databases as part of internal audit controls and provided data in response to Access Governance related audit inquiries from internal and external auditors within requested timelines. Initiated meetings by involving leads with various technology teams for any validation queries or challenges faced during access management efforts. Successfully created and maintained Mailbox’s, Distribution lists in Microsoft exchange. Managed work via infra or similar ticketing system used for service request and incidents. Worked on remote technologies (RSA) and administering access controls for VPN, OWA and Mobile devices. Provisioning new hire accounts (P drive, mailbox) and granted access to various security groups including VDI. Environment: Windows 2008, 2008 R2 and Windows 2012, ACM, Net IQ DRA, RSA,MS Exchange management console, PAM, VDI, Office 365, Group Policy, Identity Management. Confidential, Lincolnshire, IL Active Directory Engineer Responsibilities: Successfully Migrated to Windows 2008 R2 x64 Active Directory Single Forest and Domain Architecture. Managed systems configuration and maintenance, problem troubleshooting, system and program security, applications and program management, planning and directing upgrades, and testing operations to ensure optimum system functionality. Provided design, implementation, administration and support of Windows 2000 Active Directory and Windows NT legacy domain. Managed, led and supported Windows NT, 2000 and 2003 Active Directory domain network in multi-locations. Executed effective processes for architecture, designing and deployment of AD domains and directory servers. Managed Active Directory Domain, DNS and DHCP Servers and configurations. Managed the Help desk & Desktop Support team which supported Windows 9.X, 2000, XP, Vista and Windows 7 along with the MS-Office including mail services. Investigated new technologies, software, patches, and security packages, which will improve system performance and systems administration procedures. Utilized global leval and site level Group Policy Objects (GPDs) to manage AD Organizational Units(OUs), objects, groups, users, and computers. Implemented Role based Access Control (RBAC) least Privilege and delegated Access Active Directory security administration models. Created Power shell scripts to perform alerting, reporting, monitoring and routine maintenance for domain resources. Performed data migrations across multiple (UNIX/LINUX) servers and windows servers. Integrated Active Directory authentication for CentOS using LDAP, PAM, and Kerberos. Performed root cause Analysis (RCA) for infrastructure, network and server issues. Administered PKI with Active Directory Certificate Services. Environment: Windows 2008, Outlook 2010/2013,O365, Created AD Group policies, Windows Azure AD,IPv4 configurations, DHCP, DNS and WINS. Confidential, Memphis, TN Active Directory Services Engineer Responsibilities: Support multiple AD forests, including multiple domains forest with over 16 domains, 80 domain controllers and 40 AD sites, running on Windows 2003, Windows 2008, 2008 R2 and Windows 2012 Planning intra forest migration to consolidate multiple child domains. Provide procedures, documents, customize accounts migration with pre/post task to minimize user’s impact after migration. Planning and implement data synchronization between external data to AD. Customize update certain data fields from HR data to multiple attributes in AD user object. Deploy, Manage and troubleshooting of windows 2008R2 Domain Controllers in Active Directory Implemented Power-shell scripts to generating automated reports. Implemented Power-shell scripts to automate creation of contacts from Active directory users. Creation of Identity Management process, strategy, best practice and architecture documentation including Access Management, Password Management, DAP Management, Provisioning, Delegated Administration. Worked with developer to troubleshoot LDAP connection to query multiple AD domains Experience in installation and configuration of Microsoft SQL Server 2000 and 2005. Automated user accounts to force password change for every 30 days with Group policy. Hyper-V installation and configuration in Windows. Provide expert technical knowledge and support for Microsoft Active Directory 2003/2008R2. Active Directory administration, infrastructure, process, procedures, monitoring, and projects - Active Directory Win2008R2. Third level support for DNS, DHCP, DFS, group policy. Implement ADFS and Dir-sync for deployment of Office 365. Environment: Windows 2008, 2008 R2 and Windows 2012, DNS, DHCP, DFS, ADFS, LDAP, Office 365, Group Policy, Identity Management Confidential Windows Admin Responsibilities: Design, Deploy and migrate Windows 2000 domains to join new Windows 2003 forest. Migrating users and groups from windows 2000 domains to windows 2003 domains using Aelitas tool Windows 2003 Servers deployment and Configuration Managing Active directory, DNS, WINS and DHCP Servers Active Directory Services -- Managing Users & Other AD objects Developed custom web based self-service identity management website Planning and configuring new internal & external websites Developed power-shell scripts for backup and restore for windows. Creating, deploying, renewing and Import & export of the SSL certificates Coordination with application development teams for issue troubleshooting Work on Accounts Delegation, Drive Mappings and Widows Servers Decommission Process Create and Link AD policies to windows Servers 2003 in PROD & QA Environments. Monitoring/Analyzing/Troubleshooting Active Directory Replication in Multi Domain Environment. Tracking and documenting Active Directory production support issues Environment: Active Directory, DNS, WINS, DHCP, Identity Management, Windows Servers, Drive Mappings 