SUMMARY Around 7 years of experience as DevOps Engineer and in Linux administration and Executing DevOps strategy in various environments of Linux and Windows servers along with espousing cloud strategies based on AWS Expertise in AWS Resources like EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Security Groups. Experience in optimizing volumes, EC2 instances and created multiple VPC instances and created alarms and notifications for EC2 instances using Cloud Watch. Experience in working on source control management tools like GIT (GitHub), Subversion (SVN) and creating GIT repositories with specified branching strategies Expertise in using Heroku and Docker while deploying to facilitate Continuous Deployment Expertise in using build tools like MAVEN for the building of deployable artifacts such as war from source code. Diverse experience utilizing technologies like JSP, XSLT, jQuery, .Net, GWT, Java Servlets, Java Struts, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Hibernate, JSF, EJB, JNDI, JMS, XML, XML Beans, Web Services, Maven, Ant, Hudson, JDBC, PL/SQL Expertise in implementation and maintenance of Apache HTTP, SMTP, DNS, TCP/IP, Security Management & Security trouble shooting skills Experience on working with various OS like Linux (Red hat, Ubuntu, CentOS), UNIX, Windows Experienced in Querying RDBMS such as Oracle, MY SQL and SQL Server. Designed and created multiple deployment strategies using CI/CD Pipelines using Jenkins. Configured and administered Jenkins for automated builds Responsible for installing Jenkins master and slave nodes. Experience in Using Veracode for Validation testing and QA. Expertise in automating builds and deployment process using Bash, Python and Shell scripts. Rapid provisioning and configuration management for Ubuntu using Chef on AWS platform Installed and Configured Chef Server, Workstation, Client servers and nodes, written several recipes, cookbooks in Chef to automate the environment provisioning, Middleware Infrastructure Installations Hands on experience in Pivotal Cloud Foundry and other PaaS platforms Experience in Designing, Installing and Implementing Ansible configuration management system and in writing playbooks for Ansible and deploying applications Designed Build Engineer Modules to manage configurations and automate installation process and developed automation scripting in Python using Puppet to deploy and manage Java applications across Linux servers. Familiar with designing and deploying container - based production clusters using Docker. Experienced with Docker container service. Creating Docker files, Docker Images & Containers Experience with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker hub and Docker registries, installation and configuring Kubernetes and clustering them. Extensively worked on Jenkins, Docker for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployment. Experience on working with on-premises network, application, server monitoring tools and on AWS with CloudWatch monitoring tool. Good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like Agile, Waterfall Methodologies Experience in Deployment, configuration, Implementation & performance tuning of WebLogic, WebSphere, Oracle Application Server, .Net, JBoss, Apache and Tomcat Servers. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: RHEL Linux, Centos, Ubuntu, Windows Source Code Management Tools: Subversion, GIT Cloud Services: AWS, Azure, Pivotal Cloud Foundry Build Tools: ANT, MAVEN Continuous Deployment Tools: Heroku, Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Docker Continuous Integration Tools: Jenkins CI Servers: Apache Tomcat, Nginx, MySQL Scripting Languages: C, Shell, .Net, Python, Bash PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, CA DEVOPS Engineer Responsibilities: Established Continuous Integration and Deployment pipeline using Jenkins and Heroku with Maven as build tool. Deployed updates and modules within the production Environment using Heroku. Configured Jenkins with maven build tool in generating war/ear files and archived them. Responsible for maintaining backup and versioning of war/ear file using nexus repository. Integrated Git, Jenkins and maven in accomplishing continuous integration and configured Jenkins with Poll SCM build trigger. Employed Docker containers to existing CI/CD pipelinefor enhanced performance. Used Container- as- a- Service for employing docker container to the existing CI/CD pipeline. Also helped in automation of Content Delivery and migration in AEM project using Jenkins and AEM tools i.e. Crx2Oak tool. Continuously managed and improved the build infrastructure for global software development engineering teams including implementation of build scripts, continuous integration infrastructure and deployment tools. Used Veracode for security testing and validation during QA phase of the pipeline. Used Akamai Cache for facilitating content updates during staging and production. Used Akamai API’s to automate cache clearance and updating during and after production stage. Used Content Control Utility API and FastPurge API to automate the process of purge and flush of Akamai Cache. Employed python scripts to automate the CI/CD pipeline and content Delivery mechanism. Collaborating with other teams for File System related tasks for DR activities as well as regular File System cloning for Application team testing. Bundled automation content with Ansible roles to make the content reusable and made possible advanced execution in automation. Deployed builds to different environments like DEV, QA, UAT environments by integrating Jenkins and Ansible. Environment: Jenkins, Heroku, Docker, Akamai, Veracode, Akamai, S3, GIT, CI/CD, Jenkins, Maven, JFrog Repository, Akamai API’s, Apache, Groovy, Python, SQL. Confidential, Harrisburg, PA DEVOPS/ AWS Engineer Responsibilities: Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts. Build and configure a virtual data center in the Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse hosting including Virtual Private Cloud ( VPC ), Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups, Route Tables, Elastic Load Balancer. Continuously managed and improved the build infrastructure for global software development engineering teams including implementation of build scripts, continuous integration infrastructure and deployment tools. Created Python scripts to totally automate AWS services which includes web servers, ELB, CloudFront distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration, this script creates stacks, single servers, or joins web servers to stacks. Configured Kubernetes and used as Clustered mechanism for Images and configurable files. Managed and supported AWS Security related issues, such IAM and S3 policies for user access. Provide highly durable and available data by using S3 data store, versioning, lifecycle policies, and create AMI s for mission critical production servers for backup. Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets. Assisted the team experienced in deploying AWS. Participating in planned activities like Patching, File System maintenance, Hardware changes, Firmware/Driver upgrade, other configuration changes, etc. on Linux/Windows servers in a Maintenance window. Extensive .Net framework experience to deal with the enhancement of project. Created scripts in Python which integrated with Amazon API to control instance operations. Extensive hands-on experience in Pivotal Cloud Foundry, other PaaS platforms and In-depth understanding of Domain Driven Design and 12 Factor principles. Manage AWS EC2 instances utilizing Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancing and Glacier for our QA and UAT environments as well as infrastructure servers for GIT and Chef. Collaborating with other teams for File System related tasks for DR activities as well as regular File System cloning for Application team testing. Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch. Environment: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Chef, EC2, S3. Kubernetes, GIT, Cloud Foundry, .Net, CI/CD, CT, Jenkins, CHEF, Artifactory, API, AWS Auto Scaling, Apache, Maven, Putty, Apache, Python, SQL. Confidential, Phoenix, AZ DEVOPS Engineer Responsibilities: Configured Jenkins with maven build tool in generating war/ear files and archived them. Responsible for maintaining backup and versioning of war/ear file using nexus repository. Integrated Git, Jenkins and maven in accomplishing continuous integration and configured Jenkins with Poll SCM build trigger. We are using Ansible as primary automation tool in configuring and deploying artifacts to several environments. As most of the infrastructure is hosted in AWS cloud, I am responsible for creating and managing EC2 Instances. Configured Kubernetes and used as Clustered mechanism for Images and configurable files. Configuring EC2 instances with Playbooks to enable environment for deployment. Maintaining AMIs of the Configured Ec2 instances. Responsible for writing micro services using Spring Boot and Pivotal Cloud Foundry. Creating Jenkins jobs and distributing load on Jenkins server by configuring Jenkins nodes which will enable parallel builds. Managing Jenkins artifacts in Nexus repository and versioning the artifacts with time stamp. Deploying artifacts into servers in AWS cloud with ansible and Jenkins Maintaining backup of Jenkins builds in AWS S3. Creating backup of EBS volumes and restoring it. Ensuring the servers to sustain the load by configuring Elastic load balancer & Auto scaling. Enabling robust virtual private cloud to ensure the network isolation from public cloud and securing them with Security groups and NACL. Involved in Writing Docker files to build customized images for creating containers. Bundled automation content with Ansible roles to make the content reusable and made possible advanced execution in automation. Deployed builds to different environments like DEV, QA, UAT environments by integrating Jenkins and Ansible. Environment: Chef, Puppet, Git, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Solaris, Kubernetes, Tivoli Storage Manager, VMware ESX5, Cloud Foundry, Cassandra, Tivoli Net backup, and Web sphere, ALM. Windows, Windows 2008 Confidential Java/UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax Applied Use Cases diagram to validate and test web application design against the UI architecture Created web pages for each project using XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Used JQUERY to handle the client-side validations. Responsible for transforming designed mock - ups to web pages. Used to update the HTML pages using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response. Designed web pages and used applications that meet business needs and user goals through a user experience. Designed and developed AJAX calls to populate screens parts on demand Developed Web applications that are cross - browser compatible. Responsible in creating the screens with table less design. Performing new - website support research in the areas of Latest Web Technologies, Usability, Accessibility, and User Experience. Worked closely with team members to meet the client requirement. Actively participated in day - to - day meeting, status meeting, strong reporting and effective communication with project manager. Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS2/3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Firebug DEV tool, Chrome DEV Tool, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Flash, Visio and Eclipse IDE. 