SUMMARY Overall 6+ years’ experience in installation, configuration and management of services in Linux and configuration management tools, build tools for automation in Agile methodology and SDLC which include monitoring, configuration, troubleshooting and maintenance in cloud and DevOps Environment with Continuous integration and Continuous Delivery process. Worked with Ansible to create AWS instance, configuration management, and software deployment. Experience in using Ansible to manage Web applications, Environments configuration files, packages, Mount points and users. Created and used Ansible Playbooks in Ansible Tower and integrated Ansible tower with Jenkins to deploy code to different servers. Created Docker images, upload/download in and out from the Docker Hub and Worked on setting up new tools such as Kubernetes with Docker to assist with auto - scaling, continuous integration, rolling updates with no downtime. Built various containers using Docker engine and Docker Machine environments, to deploy the micro services-oriented environments for scalable applications. Experience in writing Docker files to build the micro-service applications. Also used Docker Compose file to deploy and run multiple containers together using YAML scripting and configure applications. Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed byKubernetes, Linux, Bash, Python, GIT, Docker, on GCP. Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test and deploy. Configured Kubernetes as a platform for automatic deployment of containers and created multiple clusters for load balancing and run multiple services in the production environment by mounting volume to the pods. Experience in configuring Chef Server/Workstation and bootstrapping Nodes, Wrote Chef Cookbooks and recipes using Ruby, Python script. Performed testing with kitchen and unit testing. Developed Azure custom RBAC policies to restrict the access to the users and services, managed the Security center updates and recommendation by devising suitable plans to provide the updates. Experience in Maintenance of Source Control Management Systems such as GIT and Subversion (SVN). Created tags, branches, merging and administrated software repository. Strong experience with Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) with Jenkins, GIT and Nexus repository. Deployed Java applications/web services using CI/CD tools like Jenkins, puppet in standalone and clustered environments. Experience in using Maven and ANT as build tools for deployable artifacts (jar, war, ear) from source code management tool. Experience in performing automated builds for .NET applications using Jenkins and managing the code in TFS and adding virtual IP’S and directories for applications on IIS web server. Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle and Jenkins is Built on Docker container and the Master controller Kubernetes controls pods. Worked on Docker containerization. Collaborated with infrastructure and development support team to setup continuous delivery environment using Docker. Worked with Ansible playbooks for virtual and physical instance provisioning, configuration management, patching and software deployment on AWS environments through automated tools, Ansible custom pipeline. Worked on building and deploying of Java code through Jenkins and used Jenkins Amazon Web Services Code Deploy plugin to deploy on AWS and worked on AWS Cloud Management. Implemented automated server build management, monitoring and deployment using Puppet, and Nagios. Used Splunk as a monitoring tool for puppet for analyzing puppet environment which includes puppet statistics and reports. Worked on deployment automation using Shell with more concentration on DevOps and CI/CD tools such as Jenkins and used PowerShell for resource management and accessing data in Azure for managing operating systems and automating processes. Configured Ansible for Orchestration of deployments on various servers. Configured local Maven repositories with Nexus repositories and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration and Configured the Ansible playbooks with Ansible Tower. Experience in creating and versioning Docker files to create different versions of Docker images which are stored in Docker registry to be later consumed by the Kubernetes to perform rolling deployments. Developed Deployments, Pod Definitions, Services in YAML to customize the Deployments in Kubernetes Environment and troubleshooted various issues with Pods and developed Yaml scripts to automate the interaction with API Server. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: RHEL/CentOS 5.x/6.x/7.x, Ubuntu/Debian/Fedora, Solaris 7/8/9/10, Windows Server  2003/2008/2010  Cloud: AWS, Azure Scripting: Bash, Shell, Ruby, PowerShell, Python, Perl, YAML, JSON Build/Automation Tools: Ansible, Chef, Puppet, Jenkins, Maven, Ant Databases: MySQL, SQL Server, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Cassandra Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, Remedy Version Control Tools: GIT, Subversion, TFS Web/App Server: Apache, IIS, TFS, Tomcat, WebSphere Application Server Web/Programming: Servlets, JDBC, JSP, XML, HTML, .Net, Java Script, Java/J2EE, C, C++, Perl, Python, Shell, Ruby, YAML PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Pittsburgh, PA Cloud & DevOps Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Responsible for Architecting Multi AZ Components in AWS like, EC2, IAM, VPC, RDS With Replication, S3 for Object and Static Webpages, Auto Scaling of Micro Services like ECS, ELB with SSL Certs. Involved in designing and deploying applications utilizing almost all the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, ELB, EBS, VPC, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM, KMS, Lambda, Kinesis) and focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling in AWSCloudFormation, deployment services (OpsWorks andCloudFormation) and security practices. Worked on AWS Route53 for registering domain names and to route internet traffic for domains and monitor the health checks of the resources. And also worked on Automating the cloud deployments using AWS Cloud Formation Templates and Using CI/CD framework to Auto Deploy and Monitor. Developed Azure ARM Templates to deploy the Azure VMs, managed the Azure subscriptions, Azure storage accounts to store the ARM templates in multiple Blob storages. Triggered ARM Templates from the Azure DevOps platform through the service principle authenticated through Active Directory, Azure Ansible custom extensions, Key Vault API to encrypt the storages. Managed Kubernetes, running Nodes, container snapshots and images, and used Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling, and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts. Implemented CICD allowing for deploy to multiple client Kubernetes/AWS environments AND Leveraging kops implemented a Kubernetes Container Orchestration solution within AWS allowing for easy management, creation and recovery of AWS assets. Created AWS Cloud formation Templates to automate creation of EC2 instances, autoscaling and provide security features with AWS CloudTrail service and integrate with SNS for notification. Configured Azure Resource Manager service to manage different resources, resource groups and deploy applications with consistent management of resources in Azure Subscription. Created JSON basedAzure Resource Manager (ARM) templates for deployments. Wrote Ansible Playbooks to automate the Build of Docker Image, Utilized Jenkins to Auto push to Docker HUB, Automated the infrastructure downloaded and managed Ansible roles from Ansible Galaxy. Developed Ansible Playbooks using YAML scripts for launching different EC2 virtual servers in the cloud using Auto-scaling and Amazon Machine Images (AMI). Created different virtual networks in Azure to organize virtual machines to specific networks and worked on creating groups for different environments and assign virtual machines using Azure Monitoring tools to keep track of the logs and data. Installed and configured Jenkins with SonarQube and GIT by installing GIT plugins and building the artifacts using Maven automation tool and storing the build artifacts into Nexus repository and deploying it to Tomcat server. Worked on Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change and Managing the configurations of multiple servers using Ansible. Monitored the applications on IBM WebSphere application server and integrated configuration of web apps with WebSphere. Installation, configuration & upgrade of VMware ESXi, vSphere, vCenter clients. Installed and configured RedHat Enterprise Linux 7.x, CentOS 7.x and packages for RedHat Linux Servers. Experienced in installation, configuration and management of HTTP, NGINX, NTP, NFS, FTP, DHCP, DNS. Created Shell Scripts to monitor the administrative tasks and automated the tasks to free up the resources using Cron jobs. Experienced in setting up monitoring tools like Nagios and Amazon cloud watch to monitor major metrics (Load Balancer Latency, CPU Utilization, network packets). Worked on AWS Route53 for registering domain names and route internet traffic for domains and monitor the health checks of the resources. Automated cloud deployments using Cloud Formation Templates and CI/CD framework to Auto Deploy and Monitor. Experience in infrastructure development and operations by involving in designing and deploying using AWS services like AWS EC2 Instance, Route53, DNS, ELB, EBS, AMI, IAM, VPC, S3, cloud front, cloud formation templates, cloud watch monitoring. Used MySQL, DynamoDB, IBM DB2 and Elastic Cache to perform basic database administration and worked with different bug tracking tools like Jira, Remedy. Finding and documenting the issues that arise with Jira in confluence in combined effort with Jira. Involved in all phases of Software development life cycle (SDLC) and experienced with fast paced Agile methodologies. Confidential - Milwaukee, WI DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Worked on designing and deploying multitude applications using most of the AWS stack (like EC2, Route53, S3 buckets, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM, VPC, EBS) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling. Implemented Security groups for inbound/outbound access, network ACLs for controlling traffic through subnets, Internet Gateways, NAT instances and Route Tables to direct the network traffic and ensure secure zones for organizations in AWS. Managed the services and resources for the users and managed the permissions for allowing and denying the services using IAM roles and assigned individual policies to each group. Created Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) with EC2 Auto scaling groups in multiple available zones to achieve fault-tolerance and high availability. Implemented alarm notifications for EC2 hosts with CloudWatch. Configured Puppet as a Configuration management tool, to automate configurations of broad range of services, quickly deploy critical applications, and proactively manage changes and to monitor scalable infrastructure on AWS. Developed microservice onboarding/self-service tools leveraging Python and Jenkins allowing for easy creation and maintenance of build jobs and Kubernetes deploy and services. Configured and managed Puppet master server and experience in updating and creating modules and delivering them to puppet clients and managing SSL certificate. Creating and versioning Docker files to create different versions of Docker images stored in Docker registry to be later consumed by the Kubernetes to perform rolling deployments And Implemented Docker to provision Jenkins slaves dynamically as needed. Automated deployments, scaling, and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts, provided container-centric infrastructure by Kubernetes. Developed Multi Master hosts to increase the availability and scalability. Wrote custom Modules and Manifests for creating LAMP stacks on AWS instances. Performed upgradation of Puppet community and Puppet Enterprise. Wrote Python scripts for building custom utilities, custom data visualization for web apps and for managing files and networks. Installed and configured Jenkins with GIT, JUnit and also with UDeploy and built the artifacts using Maven scripts and stored the artifacts into nexus repository. Created UDeploy scripts to simplify batch deployments and to automatically restart the UDeploy agents on the servers. Skilled with Linux Utilities: KICKSTART, SSH, User Management, Process Management, Memory Management, and Text processing tools, Log Management, Package Management, Disk Management and Swap Partition/Files Management. Experience in Working with services and in using various network protocols like HTTP, TCP/IP, SSH, UDP and SMTP. Expertise in creating LVM (logical volumes), Volume groups and file systems. Worked with bug tracking tool Jira and configured various workflows, configurations and plugins for setting up Jira. Experience with all phases of software development life-cycle (SDLC) and agile development methodology. Creating HA WebLogic server instances and configuring with external webserver, database and messaging (MQ). Used Administration Console and WebLogic Admin utility to configure and administer WebLogic Administration Server. Built a new pipeline and used Docker for virtualization of servers for test environments and dev-environment needs and configuration of automation using Docker container, Jenkins and puppet. Managed applications, OS, packages, services using chef as well as AWS for EC2, S3 and ELB with chef cookbooks. Configured chef server enterprise On-Premise/Workstation/Bootstrapped the nodes using knife via CLI tools to AWS nodes. Installed and configured chef server Bootstrapped Nodes, Created Run lists, Generated Custom Cookbooks using Resources, used Test Kitchen Vagrant/Docker and Knife utility to automate Cloud Config Management Tasks. Worked on migration of VMware ESXi 5.5 to VMware ESXi 6 which involves installation of vCenter, firm upgrades on ESXi and inventory migration. Managed virtual environment by linking different vCenter servers using linked mode to a single instance vSphere client. Created firewall rules and assigned port numbers for the services and new applications. Created users and groups with sudo access and password less logins for root users. Confidential - Modesto, CA Build and Release Engineer Responsibilities: Configured Jenkins as Continuous Integration server, build jobs to provide continuous automated builds from GIT and performed periodic schedules. Implemented continuous integration practices with Jira, Jenkins and continuous deployment pipeline using Shell Scripts, Python Scripts and Jenkins. To manage the dependencies used Maven as a dependency management tool. Used Maven as a build tool on Java applications for the development of build artifacts on the source code. Updated and managed Maven build configurations and Performed integrated tests and managed GIT branching and merging for older projects in multiple releases. Stored artifacts on Nexus repository for Maven dependencies. Configured JBOSS ON including inventory, Administration and Monitoring Modules for identifying and cataloging Middlewareassets and monitor status, memory and disk usage of JBOSS Applications. Configured JBOSS, including JMS, JDBC and Security. Deployed the J2EE products in JBOSS Application server. Deployed EAR, WAR, JAR files in JBOSS application server using Maven and ANT script. Used ANT and Maven POMs and integrated them with Nexus repository and worked with different applications and application servers, deployed the artifacts to Tomcat web server and WebSphere application servers, IIS. Created automated builds for visual studio .NET applications using Jenkins and managed the build automation code in TFS repository. Configured sites, added virtual IP’s and virtual directories for .NET application websites in IIS web server. Good understanding of .Net framework with knowledge on C# and ASP.NET and deployed applications on IIS server. Installed, configured RedHat Enterprise LINUX 5.x. Scheduled Cron jobs using sh and bash, written bash scripts for automated backups. Managed users, groups, permissions, system settings and configured messaging notifications. Used Jira with Maven release plug in for defects and bug tracking. Used Nagios for monitoring web applications, web services, URL monitoring, content monitoring and HTTP status. Written shell scripts for building and deploying of Java applications to the target environments. Deployed the build artifacts into environments like QA, UAT according to the build life cycle. Coordinated in end-end release process from the planning of release content to deployment and production. Experienced with all phases of software development life cycle. Confidential Linux Administrator Responsibilities: Installation, configuration and administering RedHat Enterprise Linux server 6.x, VMware ESXi host 4.x and configured vCenter 4.x and vSphere 4.x. Managed the physical and virtual environments using Virtual Center Server with a mixture of ESXi 4.x and ESXi 3.x hosts, consists of multiple physical hosts. Created templates for cloning of virtual machines using VMware Virtual Client and migrating servers between ESXi hosts. Created Snapshots and Snapshot chains to preserve the state and data of virtual machines at a specific point. Remote logins with Open SSH, managed DHCP, firewalls, users and groups. Managed the firewall rules for new servers to enable communications with new applications. Created the filesystem using RedHat Volume Manager and performed the health checks on a regular basis. Created volume groups, logical volumes and Filesystems. Configured RAID 1 and RAID 5 Storage using Volume Manager. Worked on logical volume management creating VG, LV and mounting the file systems and extended file systems size in production servers. Added storage to the cluster disks and increase/decreasing the disks in the Linux server. Build the RPM packages and updated the RedHat package manager as well as YUM repository. Installed and configured SAMBA server in Linux for accessing the shared files from the windows environment. Configured HTTPS, NTP, Installed and configured FTP to download and upload the files for clients. Configured and manage Network filesystem(NFS) and auto mount in the network. Monitoring CPU, memory, physical disk, hardware and software RAID, File Systems, network using monitoring tool NAGIOS 4.0. Troubleshooting Linux networks, security related issues, monitoring packets using IP tables, firewall, TCP wrappers. Involved in building and configuring RedHat Linux Servers using Kickstart server and maintained maximum uptime and maximum performance capacity for Enterprise production. Scheduled Cron jobs for users, clear logs, backing up database and maintenance. Created failover domains for the cluster and Flipover/Failover test in between the nodes in the cluster.