SUMMARY Around 8 years of IT experience as a Build and Release/DevOps Engineer in automating, building, deploying, and releasing of code from one environment to another environment. Extensive experience in Linux/Unix system Administration, System Builds, Server Builds, Installations, Upgrades, Patches, Migration, Trouble shooting. Configured Cisco UCS, Dell, HP & Lenovo hardware and Installed RHEL, Ubuntu, Solaris and Windows servers. Skilled at Software Development Life Cycles(SDLC) and Agile Programming Methodologies. Experience on Virtualization tools like VMWare, Oracle VirtualBox, AWS and Microsoft Azure. Experience in Server infrastructure development on AWS Cloud, extensive usage of Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Cloud Formation, Cloud Front & Trail, EC2, S3, IAM, Lambda, EKS, EBS, ELB, Cloud Watch, Route 53 and Autoscaling. Experience in Creating S3 buckets and managed policies for S3 buckets. Used S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS using lifecycle policies. Managing AWS services and infrastructure through Terraform by writing Terraform modules (Terraform scripts). Expertise in Scripting with Bash, Shell, Python and R programming for automation of Activities and builds. Production experience in large environments using configuration management tools like Chef, Ansible and Puppet supporting Environment with 500+ servers and worked with plugins in Nagios for monitoring resources. Experience in installing and configuring the Ansible management node to deploy configuration to the end user nodes. Experience in writing Ansible playbooks to deploy configuration to the productions servers. Experience in installing and configuring the Puppet Master and Puppet Agent setup to set up automation deployment. Experience in configuring Server - Client model of Chef in development environment. Experience in writing Chef Recipes to automate deployment process and do an overall process improvement to any manual processes. Experience in implementing Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD) using Jenkins (CI/CD) tool to fully automate building pipeline. Experience in setup and maintaining Load Balancers like ELB, HAProxy and Nginx. TCP/IP fundamentals DNS, FTP, LDAP, Remote Access, Security Management, System Troubleshooting skills, and good knowledge in networking concept including Firewalls. Experience in design and Implement Orchestration solution using Docker. Experience in Administration/Maintenance of source code management systems, such as GIT & Sub Version (SVN). Experience in administration and development with CI/CD tools Jenkins, Sonarqube, GIT, Subversion, Artifact, Nagios. Experience in integrated Jenkins with the version control tools to pull the latest pushed code. Experience developing shell scripts for automation of the build and release process in Jenkins. Experience working with JIRA for the error tracking and monitoring by integrating with the Jenkins Worked on Docker Images. Creating images from scratch and modifying the existing images. Experience with container based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, DockerHub and Docker registries. Worked on implementing microservices on Kubernetes Cluster. Jenkins is Built on Docker container and the master controller Kubernetes controls pods. Designing and implementing Container orchestration systems with Docker Swarm and Kubernetes. Experience in designing kubernetes cluster using AWS-Kops (EKS), and configuring and deploy the Kubernetes dashboard to access the cluster via its web based user interface. Expertise in using build tools like Maven and ANT for the building of deployable artifacts such as war & ear from source code. Experience in installing and configuring Artifact Repositories (Jfrog Artifactory). Experience in integrating Homegrown Selenium, automating tool with build processes to provide feedback for the development teams. Extensive experience in Monitoring, ticketing and tracking tools like JIRA, Nagios, Splunk, Dynatrace & Prime REMEDY for production hotfixes and bugfixes. Experience with Dynatrace, Application Performance Monitoring (APM) tool for monitoring and analysis of PaaS services, Infrastructure services and application services. Experience in writing Python scripts to totally automate AWS services which includes web servers, ELB, EC2, database, security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration Experience in using Apache Tomcat Nginix servers for deployments. Expereince in deploying applications return in Java, JavaScript, Python, PHP, Nodejs, .NET, Ruby. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems:  Linux RHEL 6.5 and above, CentOS, Amazon Linux, Ubuntu, Oracle Linux Windows XP and above, Windows Server 2008, 2012 & 2016.Virtualization VMware & Oracle Virtual Box. Cloud Technologies:  Amazon Web Services & Microsoft Azure. Amazon Web Services:  EC2, IAM, VPC, ELB, EFS, RDS, Cloud Watch, S3, EBS, Redshift, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, Lambda, EKS, Cloud 53 & Auto Scaling. Programming:  Shell & Bash scripting, Python & R programming. CM Tools:  Chef, Ansible & Puppet. CI/CD Tool:  Jenkins. Build Tools:  Ant & Maven. Container Tools:  Docker, Docker Swarm, EKS, Kubernetes. Code Version Control Tools:  Git & SVN. Code Repositories: BitBucket, GitHib, GitLab. Moinitioring/Tracking/Testing:  Nagios, Dynatrace, Splunk, JIRA, Prime Remedy, Selenium, Sonarqube. Repositories:  Jfrog Artifactory. Web Servers:  Apache, Tomcat, Ngnix, HAproxy. Databases:  Oracle DB, SQL, MySQL, DB2. Networking/Protocols:  TCP/IP, DNS, SSH, DHCP, HTTP/HTTPS, FTP, NFS, SCP. Others:  Microsoft Word, Excel, Outlook & PowerPoint. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Plano, TX Sr. DevOps / AWS Engineer Responsibilities: As part of DevOps team, my role includes Release management, Environment management, Continuous integration, Continuous deployment, Incident management, Version management. Worked closely with teams to ensure high quality and timely delivery (SLA) of builds and releases. Installed and configured required Jenkins plugins for support the project specific tasks. Building CI pipelines in Jenkins while also fully scripting the creation and provisioning of Jenkins and Implementing Continuous Integration and delivery process. Installed and configured Jenkins on the Linux servers and created a Master-Slave configuration to implement multiple parallel builds through a build farm. Deployed continuous integration and continuous delivery product release pipelines using Jenkins and enable the release and operation automation using Ansible. Involved in Configuration Automation and Centralized Management with Ansible and also Implemented Ansible to manage all existing servers and automate the build/configuration of new servers. All servers types where fully defined in Ansible, so that newly built server could be up and ready for production within 30 minutes OS installation. Involved in writing various Custom Ansible Playbooks for deployment orchestration and also developed Ansible Playbooks to simplify and automate day-to-day server administration tasks. Expertise in Configuration of AnsibleTower, which provides a dashboard and role, based access control, so that it's easier to allow individual teams access to use Ansible for their deployments. Involved in support and upgrade of Ansible from 1.x into the 2.x version on servers. Worked with Ansible for deployment of Security tools, Nagios agents, Nagios Servers, qoslite applications in different environments. Installing, configuring monitoring rules for the server environment using Nagios.Administration of monitoring infrastructure consisting of Nagios server with Centreon as web interface for configuration and display of performance data. Client Server Monitoring through Nagios and shell. Integrated Maven and GIT with Jenkins to implement the continuous integration (CI) process. Implemented a Continuous Deployment pipeline with Jenkins, BitBucket, Maven, Jfrog Artifactory, Ansible and application servers like Apache, Nginx. Involved in modifying the existing Maven build script in case of bugs during the changes in the project environment. Installed and administered the Jfrog Artifactory repository to deploy the artifacts generated by Maven and to store the dependent jars which are used during the build. Migrated standalone applications from local to AWS cloud. Using Jenkins AWS code deploy plugin to deploy in AWS. Developed shell scripts for automation of the build and release process in Jenkins. Configured various jobs in Jenkins for deployment of application and running test suites. Creation of Build & Release Plan, collection, analysis & presentation of Project Metrics on weekly basis. Involved in Leading Automation Deployment Team and working with Ansible. Worked with Build & Release team to enhance the current process to implement a better software packaging and delivery by automation using Jenkins & Ansible. Worked on merge conflicting code to ensure release to test environments. Experience with Dynatrace, Application Performance Monitoring (APM) tool for monitoring and analysis of PaaS services, Infrastructure services and application services. Worked on Dynatrace to setup different services for monitoring like On-prem Infrastructure, AWS services, Docker, applications and networks. Experience on Dynatrace administration, like pulling up the report as per the different team requirement and customizing the metric charts for meetings. Configuring the dashboard with on going application for real time monitoring. Experience in troubleshooting logs from Dynatrace. Worked on Docker Images. Creating images from scratch and modifying the existing images. Worked on implementing microservices on Kubernetes Cluster. Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle. Jenkins is Built on Docker container and the Master controller Kubernetes controls pods. Implemented kubernetes cluster using AWS-Kops (EKS), and configuring and deploy the Kubernetes dashboard to access the cluster via its web based user interface. Integrated Homegrown Selenium in Jenkins to perform the automated integration test. Helped provisioning team in installing and configuring RHEL on both Cloud and on-prem Servers. Provided access to EC2 resources, code repositories, and other AWS resources through IAM administration such as encrypting EBS volumes backing AMIs and scheduling Lambda functions for routine AWS tasks. Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS). Worked with developer team and assist them with applying branching, labelling using GIT source control. Written scripts in Python to automate log rotation of multiple logs from web servers. Integrated automation to release process from end to end like getting information from subversion tags bug information from JIRA and do necessary builds and send out release email to the Development and QA team. Integrated and configured GIT and BitBucket with JIRA for change control and tracking for GIT. Integrated Sonarqube with Jenkins for continuous inspection of code quality and analysis with sonarqube scanner for Maven. Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloudwatch. Helped in migration the existing MYSQL and ORACLE databases to the cloud using AWS Database Migration service and schema conversion. Confidential - Baltimore, MD CICD / Cloud Engineer Responsibilities: Experience with AWS security tools and services: AWS Security Model, IAM (Identity Access Management), ACM (Amazon Certificate Manager), Security Groups, Network ACLs, Encryption, MFA (Multifactor Authentication). Designing, building infrastructure on AWS environment. Used Amazon IAM service to administer the AWS users. Designed and deployed AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Route 53, RDS, Auto scaling groups, Opsworks. Used IAM to create new accounts, Roles and Groups. Configured S3 versioning and lifecycle policies to and backup files and archive files in Glacier. Configured Elastic Load Balancers with EC2Autoscaling groups. Supported 2000+ AWS Cloud instance’s and familiar with Amazon Cloud command line management. Set up CI (Continuous Integration) for major releases in Jenkins. Implemented a Continuous Deployment pipeline with Jenkins, GitLab, Ant, Artifactory, Chef and application servers like Apache, Nginx. Worked with Build and Release teams to enhance the current process to implement a better software packaging and delivery by automation using Jenkins & Chef. Using Bash and Python (Boto3) to supplement automation provided by Chef and Terraform for tasks Written multiple Cookbooks and recepies and customized facts for efficient management of the Chef client nodes. Wrote cookbooks for Chef and deploying applications using Chef. Integration of Automated Build with Deployment Pipeline. Currently installed Chef to pick up the Build from Jenkins repository and deploy in target environments (Integration, QA, and Production). Implemented Auto Scaling with Chef and Assign Chef Roles to EC2 instances. Configured and monitored servers by defining Chef Server from workstation to manage and configure Chef nodes.Automated the cloud deployments usingChef, PythonandAWS Cloud FormationTemplates. Rewritten Chef recipes for new environment to implement the continuous delivery (CD) process. Configured and implemented Chef to deploy the builds for Dev, QA and production environment. Implemented and building Ant to automate and enhance the overall operational environment. Integrated various provisioning and monitoring modules into a single platform using Jenkins tools. Proficient in ksh, Bash Shell and shell scripting for Administration, Monitoring, Installation and Configuration, Peer-review tasks across the Unix platforms. Installed, configured and upgraded RHEL servers. Performance management and tuning of RHEL. Experience in installing and configuring Splunk tool 3.x and 4.x versions on Linux machines. Provided troubleshooting solutions through automations and monitoring system stats on Splunk. Experience developing and deploying applications using build tools Ant. Experience with Source Control Management-SVN and GitLab. Analyze and resolve conflicts related to merging of source code for GitLab. Managed Artifactory repositories to download the artifacts during thebuild. Configured Jenkins Projects and maintained Artifacts in repositories such as Jfrog, Subversion and GIT. Maintained over 60+ jobs in Jenkins from different Application teams Primary duties include Build and Deployment of the java applications onto different environments like Dev, QA, UAT and Prod. Confidential - Tampa, FL Build & Release Engineer Responsibilities: Managed Source code using GIT and used the concepts of branching, merging and tagging for release management and suggested modification to increase efficiency. Worked with development team to resolve build failures related to environments, tools and scripts. Documented the Build and Deployment Process which could be used by the team if found any issues at the time of build and deployment of different applications to different environments. Installed Maven and configured pom.xml in conventional projects for continuous integration. Installing Apache httpd and Tomcat application servers. Build automation and build pipe development using Jenkins and Maven Build Automation. Worked with IT operational readiness team to design and implement build and release scripts using UNIX. Developed and facilitate release/deployment management processes across environments in support of releases. Experienced with working on Puppet Master and Puppet Agents. Configured Puppet to manage AWS environments and automate the build process for core AMIs used by all application deployments including Autoscaling. Experience supporting Puppet environment with 500+ servers and involved in developing manifests. Involved in server automation using Puppet for Linux servers. Deployed Puppet and Puppet Dashboard for configuration management to existing infrastructure. Good understanding of windows and VMware server automation using scripting language. Performed P2V migration for approximately 100 physical servers using VMware converter. Create a Virtual Network on Windows Azure to connect all the servers. Creating and Managing Virtual Machines in Windows Azure and setting up communication with the help of Endpoints and VM Migrations from Transitional hosts. Experience with creating, updating and managing resources on public Azure cloud. Wrote ANT and MAVEN Scripts to automate the build process. Packaging and delivery of artifacts to QA communities. Used JIRA ticket tool in release planning and executing the release build from the project team. Analyze and create daily Reports on the status of server backups on intranet and extranet. Integrated Gerrit tool to Git for code review which helped in the reduction of the code defects. Created maintenance branch in GIT to apply patches for critical fix. Archived build and placed it in a secure server to retrieve if needed in future. Developed Shell script to clone Jenkins job from one server to another. Experienced in running web scale services on Azure Developed Python script to check and report the free space on the build servers. When required applied patches as per the release process. Experiences updating Java JDK 1.8 in all Linux and Windows machines. Confidential - Kansas City, MO Linux / Unix Administrator Responsibilities: Executed user administration and maintenance tasks including creating users and groups, reports and queries. Provided support for more than 800 Unix flavor servers. Configured and installed Solaris and RedHat Linux Servers Jumpstart, and Kickstart. Remote monitoring and management of server hardware. Installed and deployed the VMware ESX containers for the VM cloud and VSphere. Package management using RPM, YUM and UP2DATE in Red Hat Linux. Worked on SAN, NAS and DAS storages with HBA card configuration and different level of RAID configuration. Worked with DBA team for database performance issues, with network team for network related issues and with vendors for hardware related issues. Developed multiple Python scripts for system monitoring. Involved in large data center migration - planning, designing, moving servers to new data center. Creating and Scheduling of Cron Jobs such as backup, System Monitoring and removal of unnecessary files. Installed and configured Apache Web Server. Used Prime tool for tracking and ticketing the workorders. Installed and deployed WebLogic and WebSphere Application Servers (WAS). Troubleshooting Hardware Problems and reports them to the appropriate teams for remediation. Understanding of NFS, DNS, DHCP on Red Hat Linux and mounting NFS based File Systems on the Linux Servers with appropriate options. Provided 24/7 Online Support for Internal Employees and external clients on a Pager rotation basis. Confidential System Administrator Responsibilities: Worked as System Administrator (Linux & Windows) on L1/L2 level. Operating system deployment of Linux(Kickstart) and Windows servers. Developed, troubleshooted & reviewed complex Linux shell scripting codes. Worked along with QA team on Quality analysis and performed end - end regression testing. Create virtual machines using VMware as per the requirement. Access the remote hardware and configure server requirements - cluster, data RAID, network, changing users and group permission and OS deployment. Troubleshoot Linux servers, create and edit the shell script to perform the team task to reduce team’s manual efforts. Work with respective teams (Technical and Vendor) to troubleshoot on the team tickets. Monitored load and performance on the servers and added capacity as needed. Work on individual and team performance Excel data report. Team lead for priority assignment project and back-up for shift leads in case of emergency. Schedule and sent meeting request via outlook to the team member. Actively participated on the team weekly meeting calls and make sure the client expediate the vendor tickets to meet SLA. Monitored Prime for tracking the SLA and workorder. Assign respective workorders to the team members as per the team workload. Mentor for the new joiners to train with the process environment and technology & make sure they get access to the required. ITIL service management client certification. Capture the updates on the team process and development to make the documentations and update the following to the team members. Hardware - Cisco, HP, Lenovo and Dell.