SUMMARY Over 11+ years of experience in application development, requirement analysis, and solution designing. Extensive knowledge and experience inASP.NET, C#.NET, Web Services, WCF, ASP.NET Web API, ADO.NET, Confidential Azure, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular, Bootstrap, PowerShell, CSS, HTML, UML, XML, MuleSoft and Java spring boot. Hands - on working experience on Confidential technologies, Java/J2EE technologies, and MuleSoft. MuleSoft certified developer - Integration and API associate Over 3+ of experience in migrating on premise web application to Azure App service and Azure Functions, Logical App’s and API apps. Worked on Azure SQL and Azure Table storage will be used for data storage. Good understanding of configuration Azure AD Connect to sync on premise Active Directory wif the cloud so application migrated to cloud can be authenticated using Azure AD. Extensive knowledge and experience in C#.Net, ASP.Net, MVC4, and WCF.MuleSoft Certified and MuleSoft Trained developer having descent experience on Mule Anypoint platform for API’s, MuleSoft ESB using Anypoint Studio.Creating custom integration workflows and processes using Mule Soft. Experience wif RAML,MuleSoftAPI Platform, RESTful API Programming and Design. Strong hands on Mule ESB Flows, Sub-flows, Flow control, MEL, and Dataweave expression. Having strong understanding of roles of Experience layer APIs, Process layer APIs and System layer APIs Good knowledge on Error handling, exception strategies in mule and integrating variety of authentication mechanisms like WebSeal, ISAM and OAuth. Designing RAML 0.8/1.0 wif data types, Dummy data for Mock APIs. Good understanding of Exchange, API manger, Access Management and Runtime Manager. Experience in working wif LDAP / ActiveDirectoryusing C#.NET. ActiveDirectoryautomation application using C#and MS Visual Studio 2010, LDAP, DAL, and XML. Project also included automated application update distribution for client workstations Extensively worked on XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT, XQuery, Xpath and DTD Has good understanding and implementedObject Oriented Programming Concepts, Design PatternsandUML. Excellent understanding of web technologies and Hands on Experience wif HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, Angular 2/4, Nodes JS, React JS. Experience wif Angular 2 by implementing routing, components, services and directives on the User Interface development. Worked onASP.NET MVC,singleton, Abstract Factory, Factory, Facade Design patterns. Good experience in Web API, Restful, Servlets JavaScript, Node JS, JQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2/4, React JS, SQL Server SSRS and SSIS, HTML, Web services, XML, Devx Controls, Sync fusion Controls, NHibernate, Composite Application Blocks (CAB) and Confidential Smart Client Software Factory (SCSF) Exposure on WPF, Silver light and SharePoint. Decent experience in Hybrid App development using Apache Cordova, Phone gap and NodeJS Good experience in developing android mobile app using java programming on eclipse and android studio. Excellent code reviews and code debugging skills. Strong experiences on implementing API’s using MuleSoft EBS and configured MULE API manager and RAML. Good experience on CM tools ( Confidential TFS, Octopus, JIRA, Confluence, Artifactory, Maven, Jenkins, ANT, GitLab, GitHub Bitbucket) and their usage / process ensuring traceability, repeatability, quality, and support. Strong experience on Testing & performance tools like Visual Studio Unit Testing Framework, Confidential test Manger, JMeter and SoapUI. TECHNICAL SKILLS Core Programming Languages: C#, VB, C, LINQ, SQL, JavaScript, Html, CSS, and Java Frameworks: .net Framework 4.0, 3.5 and 2.0 and Hibernate Web Technologies: ASP.NET, MVC 4, Angular 2/4, IIS, HTML, CSS, DHTML, Servlets, JSPs, Node.js, JMS, XML, XSLT, XSD, JQuery and Ajax Cloud Technologies:  Confidential Azure Other Technologies:  Confidential Dynamics CRM, Composite Application Blocks (CAB) and Confidential Smart Client Software Factory (SCSF) Mobile Technologies: Apache Cordova, Phone gap Web Services: .Net Web API’s, WCF, Web Services, J2EE, WSDL and SOAP Microservices: Web API’s, APIM API, MuleSoft APIManager and Spring Boot ESB tools: Mule ESB and Confidential BizTalk IDE: VS 2005/2008/2010/2012/2013/2015 , Eclipse 2.1-3.5, VS code and Anypoint studio Design Skills: IOC & DI, Unity and UML (Rational Rose, Visio), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), .Net Design Patterns, MVC, MVP, MVVM Database and Tools: SQL Server, Oracle 10g, MySQL, TOAD, SSRS, SSIS Directory Services: Active Directory, LDAP Source Control: GIT, TFS, SVN, Perforce, VSS Testing Tools: Visual Studio Unit Testing Framework, Confidential test Manger, JMeter and SoapUI. Integration Tools: MuleSoft Anypoint studio, Anypoint platform. CI/CD and other Tools:  Confidential TFS, Octopus, JIRA, Confluence, Artifactory, Maven, Jenkins, ANT, GitLab, GitHub Bitbucket PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Cranberry, PA Responsibilities: Working wif enterprise architect, system owners to design, documenting and implementing API's Responsible for overall design and architecture of the API’s and lead team. ConfigureAzure cloud servicefor Web API end point deployment. Managing API’s using Azure API Management. Developed .Net container and web applications using Angular 2 / 4. Extensively developed Angular Modules, Components, Nested Components, Event Bindings, Pipes, and Router Guard, Injectable Services, Custom angular Modules and Custom Pipes using Type Script. Environment: .Net, C#, Confidential Azure, Angular 2 / 4, Web API’s, Node.js, SQLite, J2EE, Spring Boot, Oracle, JIRA, GitLab, Jenkins, NEXUS, Visual Studio Unit Testing Framework, JMeter and SoapUI. Confidential Technical Lead Responsibilities: Working wif enterprise architect, system owners to design, documenting and implementing API's Responsible for overall design and architecture of the API’s and lead team. Coordinating wif Backend systems SME for ensuring the correct data expose. Understanding existing services, creating technical document, design API, mock API's and assign work to the team As a team lead giving V-Roms for the Requirements As a Team lead responsible for writing Technical Documents and review of Functional Specifications. Leading team and estimates timeline for ensuring that work is completed wif the estimate given Conducting daily scrum for tracking the developer work done and clearing the blockers Environment: .Net, WCF, Web services, J2EE, Spring Boot, MuleSoft Anypoint studio, and Anypoint platform, RAML JIRA, GitLab, Jenkins, NEXUS, Visual Studio Unit Testing Framework, JMeter and SoapUI. Confidential, San Diego, CA Technical Lead | Senior Developer Responsibilities: Migrated and published PETNET Portal aps.net application to an Azure cloud service, creating web role for the web project is added to dis Azure project and created an instance of SQL Database in theAzure portal . Moved all Windows services to Azure worker roles and integrated wif PETNET portal, Sql server and other backend systems using Azure Web apps. Configure Azure cloud service for end point deployment, Enable Open ID and OAuth 2.0 in Azure cloud apps, Deploy WCF services on Azure cloud. Configuration Azure AD Connect to sync on-premise Active Directory wif cloud so application migrated to cloud can be authenticated using Azure AD. Development of applications using c#.Net, Asp.net MVC 4, Web Api’s, Sql and bootstrap. Upgraded existing UI wif HTML5, and Angular. Client side development wif Angular 2 and Typescript in Visual Studio / Code. Developed rich and enhanced web pages using WEB API, C #, ADO.NET, Confidential Azure, JavaScript, JSON, Ajax, HTML 5, Angular 2 and CSS. Assisted in designing, development and management of Active Directory architecture on overall enterprise applications. Implemented procedures for development and maintenance of solutions for Active Directory requirements. Interacting wif different stakeholders of the project As a team lead giving V-Roms for the Requirements As a Team lead responsible for writing Technical Documents and review of Functional Specifications. Environment: Azure cloud, C#, Asp.net, MVC 4, HTML5, Angular 2, Typescript, Web API’s, Sql Server, GitHub, Visual Studio Unit Testing Framework, JMeter and SoapUI. Confidential Technical Lead | Senior Developer Responsibilities: Review and analyze API requirements in collaboration wif application teams, business analysts. Development of applications using C#.Net, Asp.net MVC 5, Angular 2/4, JQuery and Bootstrap. Design, develop, and implement Mule Soft API processes leveraging associated technologies Creating Mule Soft Maven API’s in Any point studio & Any point Partner Manager (APM) Development of Mule ESB Flows, Sub-flows, Flow control, prioritization, Connectors ( Confidential .NET, Salesforce Connector, Confidential SharePoint 2010, Confidential Azure Service Bus, Confidential Dynamics AX 2012, Web Service Consumer, Database, HTTP/HTTPS, JMS, FTP, SFTP, JDBC) and Transformers Exception/Error handling, Retry mechanisms, Replay mechanisms, Logging, Routers Transaction management and RAML and REST API Creation using RAML. Environment: MuleSoft Anypoint studio, Anypoint platform, RAML, Asp.net MVC 5, Angular 2/4, Bootstrap, JIRA, Bitbucket, Jenkins, NEXUS, Visual Studio Unit Testing Framework, JMeter and SoapUI. Confidential, Redmond, WA Technical Lead | Lead Developer Responsibilities: Propose design for new requirements. Enhanced the UI design for web applications. Designed and developed Web Pages using ASP.NET, C#.NET, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, CSS and server controls. Used AngularJS framework for validating the required fields and check the duplicate records in client side validation. Developed SSO functionality CRM mobile Application and using Apache Cordova, Phone gap plugins Camera, Video streaming, Geo location and barcode scanner integrated wif the CRM mobile Application for Android Provide Estimates for requirements. Divide work item into tasks and allocate efforts to each task. Assigning tasks to team members. Code review. Scrum master for daily scrum Environment: C#3.5, Script Sharp, JavaScript, Java, JQuery, Typescript, ASP.net 4.0, Apache Cordova, Phone gap, React, AngularJS, NodeJS, SQL Server 2008, Visual Studio, Eclipse, Android Studio, Source Depot, Code flow, Bugger, Sql Server 2008, Narrator, Voice Over, Research, Debugging IE, Chrome, Firefox, Windows Server 2008, 2012 . Confidential Technical Lead Responsibilities: ImplementedWeb application using ASP.NET MVC 4, C# and JQuery. MigratingOn-premises WebApplicationstoAzurePaaSand Sql Database to MicrosoftAzureSQLDatabase Implemented Multithreading Concepts to improve the application Performance. Developed the services usingWCFto access catalog and basket related functionalities. ImplementedLINQfor querying, sorting, filtering the complex objects. Experience in handling high volume transactional, messaging and distributed systems. Hands on experience on performingload testingto measure site scalability, relibitiy and performance in terms of evaluating page response time, memory utilization, CPU utilization. Designed and Created database objects such as stored procedures, packages, functions, triggers and indexes. Involved in unit testing, module testing and integration testing. Hands on Experience in creating Technical Design Document,UML(Use Case Diagrams,SequenceDiagram, Class Diagram), Process flow Diagram, Data Flow Diagram Environment: C#, ASP.NET MVC 4, JQuery, Web API, HTML 5, Azure, Sql, server SSIS and TFS. Confidential, Redmond, WA Senior developer Responsibilities: Implemented service oriented component (SOA) Layer using C#.net and WCF to decouple the UI wif BL Created WCF Services responsible for communicating and providing real time data from integrated server to Client Application. Configure TCP Protocol, Transport Level Security in WCF Service. Created Proxy for Client Application using SvcUtil tools and also used as Service Reference. Implemented Windows Authentication in WCF to consume the Service as application is used in intranet. Designed and developed the Application usingC#.Net, WCF, ASP.NET MVC 4, JQuery, HTML 5 wifSQL Server 2008 2Ras the back end. Designed UML diagram for better understand workflow of the application. Responsible for taking Requirements, Design, Implementation and Testing. Participated in all the phases of the web site and desktop application development life cycle involving analysis, design, development, testing and deployment of the project. Responsible for developing WCF Service Libraries to exchange data between Desktop and Central Application and implement business logic. Environment: MS Visual Studio 2012, C#, WCF, ASP.NET MVC 4, JQuery, HTML 5. Confidential Senior developer Responsibilities: Created a new module compatible wif both SCSF and Clear Platform. Designed and implemented a composite UI using CAB. Designed and developed the Application using C#.Net, MVP, NHibernate Syncfusion Controls, Asp.net 2.0 wif SQL Server 2005 the back end. Designed UML diagram for better understand workflow of the application. Responsible for taking Requirements, Design, Implementation and Testing. Participated in all the phases of the web site and desktop application development life cycle involving analysis, design, development, testing and deployment of the project. Environment: C#, MS SQL Server 2005, CAB, SCSF, NHibernate, Syncfusion Controls, ASP.NET 2.0 and Perforce Confidential Senior developer Responsibilities: Use Confidential technologies: ASP.NET 3.5, C#, WCF, MS SQL Server SSIS, Java Script, Ajax, Crystal Reports and Windows services, and Confidential Workflow to develop technical solutions to complex problems that require the regular use of ingenuity and creativity Design, code, test, debug and document software according to the functional requirements Develop, maintain and support programs/tools for internal and external clients Analyze, diagnose and resolve errors related to their applications Environment: ASP.NET 3.5, C#, MS SQL Server 2008, Java Script, Ajax, RDLC Reports. Confidential Programmer Responsibilities: Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and were coded using C#. Developed application logic using C#. Written stored procedures, triggers using SQL in SQL SERVER 2005. Developed Web Forms using C# and ASP.NET, Used AJAX in some web forms, Worked on Cascading Style Sheets and XML-Schemas. Extensively used Grid Views sorting and paging, Implemented Template Columns for Custom Nested Grid Views Worked on exporting reports to Excel from Grid views and Ultrawebgrids. Deployment of Application on Test and Production Server. Environment: - ASP.NET 2.0, C#, MS SQL Server 2005, Java Script, Ajax, Crystal Reports Confidential  Programmer Responsibilities: Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and were coded using C#. Developed application logic using C#. Written stored procedures, triggers using SQL in SQL SERVER 2005. Developed Web Forms using C# and ASP.NET, Used AJAX in some web forms, Worked on Cascading Style Sheets and XML-Schemas. Extensively used Grid Views sorting and paging, Implemented Template Columns for Custom Nested Grid Views Worked on exporting reports to Excel from Grid views and Ultrawebgrids. Deployment of Application on Test and Production Server. Environment: ASP.NET 2.0, C#, MS SQL Server 2005, Java Script, Ajax, Crystal Reports Confidential Programmer Responsibilities: Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and were coded using C#. Developed application logic using C#. Written stored procedures, triggers using SQL in SQL SERVER 2005. Developed Web Forms using C# and ASP.NET, Used AJAX in some web forms, Worked on Cascading Style Sheets and XML-Schemas. Extensively used Grid Views sorting and paging, Implemented Template Columns for Custom Nested Grid Views Worked on exporting reports to Excel from Grid views and Ultrawebgrids. Deployment of Application on Test and Production Server. Environment: ASP.NET 2.0, C#, MS SQL Server, Java Script. Confidential Programmer Responsibilities: Design, develop and implement the web applications, based on .NET applications Customize the developed applications as per the client specifications Test the developed applications using the various tests tools and performance metrics Debug the web applications to rectify the errors that surface during the operations Draft a logical series of instructions as program codes to determine the software's communication Environment: C#.NET 1.1 (windows application), Sql Server, Crystal Reports. 