SUMMARY A Cloud enthusiastic team player having more than seven years of Experience in IT industry as a DevOps Architect with proven expertise in Automation, Build/Release Engineering and Software development involving cloud computing platforms like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure and Google cloud Platform (GCP). Designed, configured and managed public/private cloud infrastructures utilizing Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, Elastic Load - balancers, Elastic Container Service (Docker Containers),S3, Elastic Beanstalk, CloudFront, Elastic File System, RDS, DynamoDB, DMS, VPC, Direct Connect, Route53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, CloudFormation, IAM, EMR and Elasticsearch. Expertise in working on Multiple AWS instances, set the security groups, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs, Autoscaling to design cost effective, fault tolerant and highly available systems. Accomplished in creating configured AWS IAM and Security Group in Public and Private Subnets in VPC and Created AWS Route53 to route traffic between different regions. Experience in performance tuning and query optimization in AWS Redshift. Experience in installing and administrating CI tools like Hudson/Jenkins, Subversion and GIT. Worked on setting up the life cycle policies to back the data from AWS S3 to AWS Glacier, Worked with various AWS, EC2 and S3CLI tools. Worked with Terraform key features such as Infrastructure as a code, Execution plans, Resource Graphs and Change Automation. Experience in Converting existing AWS Infrastructure to Server less architecture (AWS Lambda, Kinesis), deploying via Terraform and AWS Cloud Formation templates. Experience with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and have knowledge on containerization orchestration using Kubernetes. Involved in configuring and integrating the servers with different environments to automate provisioning and creating new machines using CM/ Provisioning tools like Chef and Puppet. Build infrastructure as a code using tools like Terraform and CloudFormation Templates. Experience on using AWS Lambda, running scripts/code snippets in response to events occurring in AWS Cloud and maintaining it. Strong Experience on Administration and Troubleshooting of Azure IAAS Components (VM, Storage, VNET, OMS, NSG, Site to Site VPN, RBAC, Load Balancers, Availability Sets). Expertise in setting up (CI/CD) Continuous integration and Deployment Pipeline for J2EE, NodeJS and Python applications as well as Docker containers using tools such as Jenkins, Anthill pro, Team city, Bamboo and AWS Code Pipeline. Extensive experience in building artefacts for J2EE applications using ANT, Maven, XCODE, and AWS Code Build. Experienced in monitoring servers using Nagios, Data dog, Cloud watch, Splunk. Implemented Kafka security features using SSL without Kerberos, further with more grain-fines security I used to set up Kerberos to have users and groups this will enable more advanced security features. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE DevOps Architect Confidential, Seattle, Washington Responsibilities: Involved in Architect, Build and maintain Highly Available secure multi-zone AWS cloud infrastructure utilizing Chef with AWS Cloud Formation and Jenkin & Hudson for continuous integration. Responsible for CI environments (Jenkins, Nexus, Sonar) Manage re-architecture of Jenkins and integration with Confluence for release management and documentation assets. Re architect a Maven based system reducing build times. Experience with setting up Chef Infra, bootstrapping nodes, creating and uploading Chef recipes, Chef node convergence in Chef SCM. Configured RDS instances using Cloud Formation and Terraform and used Terraform to map more complex dependencies and identified network issue. Worked on AWS Cloud Trail to setup auditing for our AWS account. Build Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing Terraform code and administered/engineered Jenkins for managing weekly builds Automated the cloud deployments using chef, python and AWS Cloud Formation Templates. Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins CI tool using Chef on AWS EC2 instances. Integrated Jenkins with various DevOps tools such as Nexus, HP CDA, HP ALM and HP QTP. Configured various jobs in Jenkins & Hudson for deployment of Java based applications and running test suites. Setup ANT script-based jobs and worked with Jenkins Pipelines. Developed build and deployment scripts using Ant and Maven as build tools in Jenkins to move into different environments and create new jobs and branches through Jenkins. Setting up servers through using AWS for deployment or other uses for application. Maintaining a farm of AWS solution using EC2 instances, ELB's, S3, EBS, Auto Scaling. Developing Cloud formation templates to launch VPC's and instances in the AWS cloud. Strong experience utilizing Jenkins for enterprise scale infrastructure configuration and application deployments & checking out the code from GIT and use Ant/Maven to build Jar, war, tar and ear artifacts. Provisioning Web Servers in AWS and DNS route53 records. Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, scale and manage Docker containers with multiple name spaced versions. Worked on Kubernetes to manage containerized applications using its nodes, Config Maps, selector services and deployed application containers as Pods. Experience in creating Docker containers leveraging existing Linux containers and AMI's in addition to creating Docker containers from scratch. Managed Kubernetes charts using Helm. Created reproducible builds of the Kubernetes applications managed Kubernetes manifest files and managed releases of Helm packages. Writing code in shell scripts and C-C++. Involved in defect fixing & issue resolution. Source Code Control & Repository Administration with merging and branching to develop new features in the existing code using GIT. Expertise in Developing Configuration management modules using Ops code Chef and Ruby. Creating cookbook for provisioning servers like Jenkins, Splunk and Chef-server. Highly involved in Configuring, monitoring and multi-platform servers by defining Chef server from workstation to manage and configure Chef nodes. Excellent in Setting up monitoring tools like Nagios and Amazon Cloud watch to monitor major metrics like Network packets, CPU utilization, Load Balancer Latency. Troubleshooting server related issues and problems in terms of operating system, applications with performance analysis tools using IBM Tealeaf, PowerShell Troubleshooting Packs, Win Audit, WELT and New Relic. Deployed and configured GIT repositories with branching, forks, tagging and merge requests. Used ANT and MAVEN as build tools on Java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code. Worked on Tomcat Web server for hosting web apps. Worked on User administration setup, maintaining account, monitor system performance using Nagios and Zabbix. Implemented a Nagios monitoring system to notify of system issues. Environment: Chef, GIT, AWS Cloud, Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Apache Webserver, Terraform, Linux, Unix, Solaris, Java script, Python script, Ruby script, Shell script, Perl script, MongoDB, Apache Tomcat, Amazon DynamoDB, WebSphere Senior DevOps Engineer Confidential, San Antonio, Texas Responsibilities: Migrated and implemented multiple applications from on premise to cloud using AWS services like SMS (Server Migration Service), DMS (Database Migration Service), SCT (Schema Conversion Tool), Cloud Formation, S3, Route53, Glacier, EC2, RDS, SQS, SNS, Lambda and VPC Worked on AWS services such as EC2, ELB, Auto-Scaling, EC2 Container Service, S3, IAM, VPC, RDS, DynamoDB, Certificate Manager, Cloud Trail, Cloud Watch, Lambda, Elastic Cache, Glacier, SNS, SQS, Cloud Formation, Cloud Front, EMR, AWS Workspaces, Elastic File System, Storage Gateway. Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, Redshift, Lambda, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, SNS, Optimized volumes and Cloud Formation templates High-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS CloudFormation. Configured AWS IAM and Security Group in Public and Private Subnets in VPC and Created AWS Route53 to route traffic between different regions. Build and configure a virtual data center in the Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse hosting including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups, Route Tables, Elastic Load Balancer. Created S3buckets and managed policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS and Cloud Watch alerts for instances and using them in Auto-scaling launch configurations. Developed Automation frameworks for public cloud infrastructure deployments. Worked with Terraform key features such as Infrastructure as code, Execution plans, Change Automation and extensively used Auto scaling. Worked with Chef Enterprise and Chef Open Source. Installed, configured, upgraded and managed Chef Master, Agents & Databases. Integration of Chef with Apache and Passenger. Created Custom as well as downloaded pre-written Cookbooks and Manifests, worked and utilized Chef hierarchy files, facts, and global variables. Deployed cookbooks for all the services on Auto Scaling groups with different Environments created using Chef Server. Worked on writing Recipes and Cookbooks and uploading them to Chef-server, Managed On-site OS/Applications/Services/Packages using Chef as well as AWS for EC2/S3/Route53&ELB with Chef Cookbooks. Worked on Kubernetes orchestration for Docker Containers which handles scheduling and manages workloads based on user defined parameters and development of automation of Kubernetes clusters via cookbook in Chef Created and managed Docker images from Docker Hub and handled multiple images for middleware installations and domain configurations. Involved with Dev, QA team for standard branching strategy and implemented standard tooling i.e. semantic versioning for all the application and integrated to Jenkins pipeline which runs all unit, cucumber tests and generates a report on success or failure. Responsible for creating and managing projects in Jenkins for various environments like development, QA, UAT and production and continuous integration with SONAR. Managed web services with Tomcat, JBOSS and Responsible for creating and managing user accounts, security groups, disk space, Process monitoring in Linux/Unix. Responsible for design and maintenance of the GIT Repositories and performed all necessary day-to- day GIT support for different projects. Worked on MAVEN authoring pom.xml files and managed maven repositories. Provided administration and Monitoring for Cassandra clusters on EC2 and Implemented a distribute messaging queue to integrate with Cassandra using Kafka and Zookeeper. Worked on sending application management logs to Splunk using user provided services and integrate artifactory repository server to handle multiple external and internal project binaries. Configured Splunk to monitor real-time granular metrics of all the logs and configured dashboards for each resource agents Used Splunk to send and management logs component and deployed code on Apache Tomcat, JBoss Application Servers for UAT and Development environments and used JIRA as Life Cycle Management tool to handle project activities in sprint fashion. Configured servers to provide networking services, including HTTP/HTTPS, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), network file system (NFS), and server message block (SMB), Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP), secure shell (SSH) and Network Time Protocol (NTP) Excellent knowledge on Java/J2EE and the ability of developing XML, HTML, Shell Scripts and Perl Scripts. Environment: Amazon Web Services(AWS), Git, Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes, Chef, Shell Scripting, Python Scripting, Splunk, Red Hat, Jira, Agile, Maven. DevOps Engineer Confidential, New Brunswick, New Jersey Responsibilities: Responsible for Architecting Multi AZ Components in AWS like, EC2, IAM, VPC, RDS With Replication, S3 for Object and Static Webpages, Auto Scaling of Micro Services like ECS, ELB with SSL Certs. Worked on AWS Route53 for registering domain names and to route internet traffic for domains and monitor the health checks of the resources. Automated the cloud deployments using AWS Cloud Formation Templates and Using CI/CD framework to Auto Deploy and Monitor. Wrote Ansible Playbooks to automate the Build of Docker Image, Utilized Jenkins to Auto push to Docker HUB, Automated the infrastructure downloaded and managed Ansible roles from Ansible Galaxy. Developed Ansible Playbooks using YAML scripts for launching different EC2 virtual servers in the cloud using Auto-scaling and Amazon Machine Images (AMI). Created and used Ansible Playbooks in Ansible Tower and integrated Ansible tower with Jenkins to deploy code to different servers. Installed and configured chef server Bootstrapped Nodes, Created Run lists, Generated Custom Cookbooks using Resources, used Test Kitchen Vagrant/Docker and Knife utility to automate Cloud Config Management Tasks. Managed applications, OS, packages, services using chef as well as AWS for EC2, S3 and ELB with chef cookbooks. Configured chef server enterprise On-Premise/Workstation/Bootstrapped the nodes using knife via CLI tools to AWS nodes. Installed and configured Jenkins with SonarQube and GIT by installing GIT plugins and building the artifacts using Maven automation tool and storing the build artifacts into Nexus repository and deploying it to WebSphere server. Configured Selenium testing framework for testing the Java web applications and integrated with GIT for local repositories used by Developers. Built various containers using Docker engine and Docker Machine environments, to deploy the micro services-oriented environments for scalable applications. Experience in writing Docker files to build the micro-service applications. Monitored and integrated the applications on IBM WebSphere application server and extensively involved in the migration of applications from WebSphere 7.0 to 8.5 and implemented horizontal and vertical scaling of WebSphere Application Server (WAS) in a workload-managed cluster. This has involved modeling and cloning services in WAS 8.x. Created virtual portals and managed pages, themes and skins and deployed portlet war files using XML access and ConfigEngine. And exported and imported portal configurations from one environment to other using XML access and updated higher environment with the changes. Installation, configuration & upgrade of VMware ESXi, vSphere, vCenter clients. Used VMware vMotion to eliminate application downtime from planned server maintenance by migrating running virtual machines between hosts. Experienced in installation, configuration and management of HTTP, NGINX, NTP, NFS, FTP, DHCP, DNS. Created Shell Scripts to monitor the administrative tasks and automated the tasks to free up the resources using Cron jobs. Experienced in setting up monitoring tools like Nagios and amazon cloud watch to monitor major metrics (Load Balancer Latency, CPU Utilization, network packets). Used MySQL, DynamoDB, IBM DB2 and Elastic Cache to perform basic database administration. Involved in all phases of Software development life cycle (SDLC) and experienced with fast paced Agile methodologies. Environment: Linux, DevOps, AWS, Jenkins, Confluence, Maven, Nexus, GIT, Ansible, Cloud Formation Templates, RDS, Cloud Watch, Chef, Selenium, Jira, Remedy, Nagios, Docker, Ruby Script, WebSphere YAML Script. Build and Release Engineer Confidential, Dallas, Texas Responsibilities: Build, manage, and continuously improved the build infrastructure for global software development engineering teams including implementation of build scripts, continuous integration infrastructure and deployment tools. Implemented Azure Storage, Azure SQL Azure Services and developing Azure Web role. Implemented continuous integration using Jenkins. Creating and Managing Virtual Machines in Windows Azure and setting up communication with the help of Endpoints and VM Migrations. Coordinate with the Development, Database Administration, QA, and IT Operations teams to ensure there are no resource conflicts. Interacted with client teams to understand client deployment requests. Implemented TFS branching and merging operations for .NET Source Code in the Agile Development Methodologies. Implementation of TFS Release management functionality for entire corporate codebases. Created JIRA issues to prioritize and act on what's important and stayed up to date with what's going on around the project. Maintained TFS operational databases like TFS Build and relational databases like TFS Warehouse. Maintained activities related to security in TFS. Build a presentation to present the design of hosting architecture on Windows Azure. Created a Virtual Network on Windows Azure to connect all the servers. Created repositories according the structure required with branches, tags and trunks. Knowledge of DevOps principles and practice. Developed protocol for adding new users to existing network. Worked with windows and VMware server automation using scripting language PowerShell, VBScript Developed an Azure based high performance compute environment to support the massive computational requirements of client congressional redistricting Azure application. Worked with the developers to configure plugins trough Eclipse to develop the code. Configured application servers (JBOSS) to deploy the code. For check in process used Tortoise SVN as a migration tool. Involved in migration of Bamboo server, Artifactory, and Git server. Used Ant/Maven for building Java/J2EE Applications. Integrated Maven with Jenkins for the builds as the Continuous Integration process. Responsible for writing Hooks and Triggers using Perl. Built Java application using ANT. Extensively used ANT tool to do the builds, integrated ANT to Eclipse and did local builds. Development of .NET batch applications which processes high volume of data. Maintained JIRA for tracking and updating project defects and tasks. Managed and document all post deployment issues utilizing the Post Deployments Issue Log. Kept information organized and accessible with a flexible page hierarchy using Atlassian Confluence pages Used sub modules in the GIT and educated users working with submodules in GIT. Configured plugins for the integration tools to the version control tools. Environment: Perl Scripting, Microsoft Azure, Shell Scripting, PowerShell, Unix Shell Scripting, Azure SQL, RHEL, VMware, Subversion, TFS, Hudson, Jira, Bamboo, GIT, Tomcat, Confluence, Maven, Visual Build, ANT, Jenkins. Linux System Administrator Confidential, Bowie, Maryland Responsibilities: Created users, manage user permissions; maintain User & File System quota on Red hat Linux. Install and configure DHCP, DNS (BIND, MS), web (Apache, IIS), mail (SMTP, IMAP, POP3), and file servers on Linux servers. Installed Linux OS and configured network on 25 Node HPC cluster. Branching and Merging code lines using Subversion. Administered, maintained Red Hat 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 AS, ES, Troubleshooting Hardware, Operating System Application & Network problems and performance issues; Deployed latest patches for, Linux and Application servers, Performed Red Hat Linux Kernel Tuning. Experience in implementing and configuring network services such as HTTP, DHCP, and TFTP. Managed HPC cluster, performed hardware, BIOS and application upgrade. Administered Linux servers for several functions including managing Apache/Tomcat server, mail server, and MySQL databases in both development and production. Experienced working with Preload Assist and PICS projects. Diagnosed hardware and software problems and provided solution to them. Migrated database applications from Windows 2000 Server to Linux server. Installing and setting up Oracle9i on Linux for the development team. Linux kernel, memory upgrades and swaps area. Red hat Linux Kick starts Installation. Capacity Planning, Infrastructure design and ordering systems. Monitored trouble ticket queue to attend user and system calls. Updated data in inventory management package for Software and Hardware product. Worked with DBAs on installation of RDBMS database, restoration and log generation. Attended team meetings, change control meetings to update installation progress, and for upcoming changes in environment. Environment: Linux, VMware, LVM, RAID, Volume group, NFS, NTP, RPM, YUM, DHCP, Firewalls, FTP, SAMBA, Cron, Kickstart servers, Nagios. Junior Linux Administrator Confidential, Santa Clara, California Responsibilities: Configured Kickstart files, installed RPMs, &Packages and wrote scripts for Opsware, Installing Patches. Created Users and NFS sharing &Samba sharing, EMC Agents Deployment on the Servers Responsible for Monitoring Tools deployment and Script Development for any ongoing projects. Created and maintained users, roles, permissions and enable quota for the users. Configured storage using Logical Volume Manager (LVM). Extending Volumes with LVM. Implemented RAID configuration for redundancy. Used LVM to configure volume group, logical and physical partitions and importing new physical volumes. Developed remote network administration application for the R&D department. Involved in developing code, utilizing the object-oriented design principles, Unit and Integration Testing. Developed and maintained Perl/Ant scripts for build and release tasks. Modified ANT scripts to build the JAR, Classes and WAR's. Handled User Management for Subversion Servers. Involved in Branching and Merging of the code. Provided end-user training for all Subversion (SVN) users to effectively use the tool. Involved in Hudson Installation and setup, created Hudson jobs for both build and deployment. Used Hudson as a continuous integration tool for automation of daily process. Proposed branching strategies and implemented it. Performed clean builds according to the schedule published for a given release. Worked on analysis and visualization of data using ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana) and MySQL databases in a Linux (CentOS) environment. Used JIRA as a Change Management/ Work Management/ SCRUM Agile Tool. Deployment and management of many servers via script and Chef, utilizing cloud providers as a direct Jira. Experience in maintaining Atlassian products like JIRA, Confluence, Fisheye, Bamboo, Crowd etc. Expertise in Python, Perl, shell scripting (ksh, bash), Groovy, Ruby, YAML to automate administration tasks. Environment: UNIX, SVN, Perl Scripts, Java, ANT, Maven, Hudson. 