SUMMARY IT Professional with 7 years of experience as a DevOps engineer with extensive knowledge in Build/Release management, SCM, Environment Management and Build/Release Engineering for automating, building, releasing and configuring changes from one environment to other environment. Worked on DevOps/Agile operations process and tools area (Environment, Service, unit test automation, Build & Release automation, Code review, Incident and Change Management). Profusely worked on Hudson, Jenkins Team City and Team Forge for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Integrated delivery (CI and CD process) Using Jenkins, Bamboo, Nexus, Yum and puppet. Encountered with Version Control Systems administering Subversion and Perforce. Experienced in Linux/Unix system Administration, System Builds, Server Builds, Installations, Migration, Upgrades, Patches, Trouble shooting on RHEL 4.x/5.x, Subversion (SVN), ClearCase, GIT, Perforce, TFS. Experience in Deployment and monitoring scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS)& configuration management using puppet. Experience automating entire AWS Cloud infrastructure using Cloud - formation templates and individual nodes using Opscode. Experience in automating application deployment in the cloud using Docker containerization technology using Elastic Container Service scheduler. Designed Puppet Modules to manage configurations and automate installation process. Configured Puppet facts in ruby to retrieve the static as well as dynamic information from servers. Experience in Jenkins to start/stop admin as well as managed webservers within OIM/OAM. Worked with Git and SVN for source/version control to save and manage the revisions in a repository as well as to manage the source code. Expertise in creating DevOps strategy in a mix environment of Linux (RHEL, CENTOS) servers along with Amazon Web Services. Experience in Server infrastructure development on AWS Cloud, extensive usage of Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Cloud Formation, Cloud Front, EC2, RDS, S3, Route53, SNS, SQS, Cloud Trail. Worked on functional usage and deployment of applications in Web Logic, Web Sphere and Apache Tomcat Server. Expertise in Installation, Configuration Data Base Servers like MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL,MongoDB, Oracle DB (10g,11g), on various Linux Distributions, Oracle Enterprise Linux, RedHat Enterprise Linux, Ubuntu Enterprise Linux Managed environments DEV, SIT, QA, UAT and PROD for various releases and designed instance strategies Setup and maintenance of cross development environments like windows and Linux. Expertise in Querying RDBMS such as Oracle, SQL Server using SQL, PL/SQL for data integrity. Excellent knowledge on Java/J2EE and also the ability of developing XML, HTML, Shell Scripts, PowerShell Scripts and Perl Scripts. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: JAVA, HTML and XML, C#. Scripting: JavaScript, Perl, Shell Scripting, Python, VB Scripting. Database: MYSQL, Oracle, SQL Server, mongo DB. SDLC & Testing: Agile Methodologies, Junit, Manual Testing, JIRA, service now, confluence IDE, Dev Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans Configuration management: Puppet, Chef, Ansible, Docker and vagrant, Gradle, TFS Cloud computing: Amazon Web services, EC2, IAM, Elastic Beanstalk, Openstack, cloud foundry. Operating Systems: MS Windows XP/2000/2007, Windows 95/98/Me, Windows 7 and Windows 8, Windows 10, Linux, UNIX Office Tools: Microsoft Office and Outlook Application Servers: WebLogic, Jboss, WebSphere Application Server, Tomcat, IIS Messaging: WebSphere MQ PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Denver, CO DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Worked on Implementation of automation of servers which are dispersed in different geographical regions (both on premise and public cloud), using DevOps configuration management tools. Version control through GIT. Writing new plugins in Nagios to monitor resources. Working in implementation team to build and engineer servers on Ubuntu and RHEL Linux. Provisioning virtual servers on VMware and ESX servers using VCloud. Managing and Architecting more than 3000 virtual servers. Monitoring of Application and Servers through Nagios. Web Servers Administration on Apache and Nginx. SQL queries and administration DefinedAWSSecurity Groups which acted as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or moreAWSEC2 instances. Working on MultipleAWSinstances, set the security groups, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs, Auto scaling to design cost effective, fault tolerant and highly available systems. Used Aws to Schedule the deployment of applications into the container Automated entire AWS Cloud infrastructure using Cloud-formation templates and individual nodes using Opscode. Designed and Developed Bamboo Build deployments on Dockercontainers. Worked on Docked-Compose and Docker-Machine. Installed and Configured Jenkins for Continuous Integration and used Jenkinsto perform automated Builds and Deployments. Worked on automating application deployment in the cloud using Docker containerization technology using Elastic Container Service scheduler. Designed Puppet Modules to manage configurations and automate installation process. Configured Puppet facts in ruby to retrieve the static as well as dynamic information from servers. Used Docker to create HA Architecture for several applications such as puppet, Chef, Jenkins, etc. Used Jenkins to start/stop admin as well as managed webservers within OIM/OAM. Worked with Git and SVN for source/version control to save and manage the revisions in a repository as well as to manage the source code. Installed and Configured Apache HTTP server with SQL and PHP Support. Configured Puppet Server for monitoring and installing Puppet Agents in multiple Perform automated user management, installation and configuration of various services and backup-using Puppet. Managed MongoDB environment with high availability, performance and scalability perspectives. Provided support for other users ofPuppetand applications that were managed viaPuppet. Configuring SSH, DNS and Network Security on various servers. Handling HP and DELL servers running on Red Hat Linux 6.5 and CentOS 7. Installation & Configuration of Web servers like Apache 2.2 and Application servers like Tomcat7 on the existing Linux servers to fulfill the needs of Development teams. Configured and Installed Kickstart for Red Hat Linux 6 server. Installed and configured Virtual Machines and Troubleshooting the Virtual Machines. Implemented the use of Nagios tool for Monitoring and analyzing the network loads on the individual Machines Configured servers, services, service groups, monitors, VIP (virtual IP) on CITRIX NetScaler for load balancing. Create documentation suitable for presenting to operations, engineering and executive teams Environment: Docker,Docker-compose, ELK, Open stack, AWS, RHEL, Puppet, SVN, GIT, Apache, Jenkins,PowerShell Scripting, Bash scripting. Confidential, Minneapolis, MN DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Designing and implementing CI (Continuous Integration) system: configuring Jenkins servers, Jenkins nodes, creating required scripts (Perl & Python), and creating/configuring VMs (Windows/Linux) Provisioning Jenkins environment for continuous integration by easing build and testing tasks for developers. Configured security and system in Jenkins. Added multiple nodes to Jenkins and configured SSH for continuous deployments. Maintain Chef and Puppet servers and management application that can use Service Now (CI) data to bring computers into a desired state by managing files, services, or packages installed on physical or virtualmachines. Create Chef Automation tools and builds, and do an overall process improvement to any manual processes Worked with Puppet and Chef which is used to manage Linux but later versions support Microsoft Windows. Worked on creation ofpuppetmanifest files to install tomcat instances and to manage configuration files for multiple applications. Responsible for design and maintenance of the GIT repositories and the access control strategies. Carried Deployments and builds on various environments using continuous integration tool. Developed, maintained, and distributed release notes for each scheduled release. Installed and Configured Jenkins for Continuous Integration. Participated in configuring and monitoring distributed and multiple platform servers usingPuppet. UsedPuppetserver and workstation to manage and configure nodes. Experience in managing virtual instances and disks usingPuppet. DeployedPuppet,Puppetdashboard for configuration management to existing infrastructure. Implemented continuous integration web hooks and workflows around Jenkins to automate the dev test deploy workflow aroundPuppetcodebase. Experience with production deployment tools like AnthillPro. Setuppuppetmaster, client and wrote scripts to deploy applications on Dev, QA, production environment. Maintained puppet modules and manifests that automate deployment of configuration and software for OpenStack Control Plane. Setup automated alerting of OpenStack Control Plane services using Zabbix triggers and templates. Environment: RHEL 6.3/6.4/6.5/6.7, CentOS, VM Ware, Network Protocols like NFS, NIS, Splunk, Apache, Nginx, Kick-start, VERITAS Volume Manager, Puppet, AWS, Logical Volume Manager, Nagios, Solstice Disk Suite, VERITAS Cluster Server, Oracle 11g, Shell scripting bash, ksh, Tomcat Servers 7/8. Confidential, Denver CO DevOps/Linux Admin Responsibilities: Implemented the Chef cookbook SSSD to automate the integration process between RHEL and Windows AD using Kerberos key tab file. Implemented the Chef Software setup and configuration on VM’s from the scratch and deployed the run-list into chef-server and bootstrap the chef clients remotely. Used existing cookbooks from Chef Marketplace and customizing the recipes with respect to each VM. Customized changes in Data Bags, Roles and Recipes. Involved in searching node attributes using Knife. Developed Perl and shell scripts for automation of the build and release process Creating UNIX and PERL scripts forautomated data backup, status of the storage Deploying the cookbooks, recipes using knife tool from Chef-DK Workstation to Chef-server Created user, rpm packages and patch management & configuration implementations. Responsible for maintaining the run list on chef-server. Maintained branches/forks in GITHUB version control for the changes made in cookbooks as per release. Worked on Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation from Dev to Eval, Eval to Pre Prod/ Pre Prod to Production systems using Jenkins, GIT, SVN, Chef automation tool. Implemented Nagios core/XI for monitoring Infrastructure resources. Automated Nagios alerts and email notifications using python script and executed them through Chef. Automated Nagios services for database server, web-server, application-server, networks, file sizes, RAM utilization, Disk performances using Python script in Chef. Developed Shell/Python/Perl/Ruby Scripts for automation purpose. Maintained Chef & Puppet servers & management application using Service Nowdata to bring computers into a desired state by managing files, services, orpackages installed on physical or virtual machines. Wrote Ruby Scripts, Python Scripts, Perl Scripts, Shell Scripts to deploy the java based packages like ear and war on the WebLogic App server. Environment: Chef Server, Puppet, Nagios, Tomcat, Apache web server, VMWare ESXi, Red Hat Linux 5/6/7, GitHub, SVN, Jenkins, MongoDB, Web Services, Shell script, Python, Ruby script. Confidential DevOps/Build-Release Engineer Responsibilities: Maintained ownership of CMDB, Release Branch and making sure all the versions of the Releases are in place for further use. Resolved Release conflicts regarding dates and accommodating in various Release/Build windows by negotiating with customers based on priority and other factors Wrote XMLs and used Ant scripts to deploy to WebSphere and WebLogic environments. Integrated QTP kickoff scripts as Post DEV Deployment steps to return smoke test results Aligned the resources with the help of PM for a Mock cutover and cutover (Prod Release) Used Perl and Shell scripts for deployment automation. Addressed dependencies and handling issues with release of interdependent projects especially in the Web services area. Used Subversion in branching, tagging & merging Source Code & managed the source code repository. Used Subversion to manage Configuration Items (CI’s).and CI builds were done using Jenkins/Hudson. Maintained Build in Jenkins/Hudson and deployed using plug-ins and Master-Slave setups. Trained all the developers for self-help to kick of single click builds and single click deploys. Enhanced Configuration Management using (PUPPET) to assist with automated, repeatable, and consist configuration and application deployments. Wrote specific Puppet manifests to deal with application installations and related configuration files. Responsible for scaling/upgrading/maintaining the application. Created custom developer tools and workflows for testing and releasing Puppet code Trained and communicated the release process to all the counterparts globally. Worked on Ant-Maven conversion process by authoring POM Files. Maintained all the UNIX, Linux, AIX and Solaris environments for deployments. Used Remedy to track the Change requests and Release requests for all the approvals and signoffs Environment: SVN, GIT, Jenkins, Hudson, Web logic, Nexus, Sonar, JIRA, Oracle, Shell, WLST, Python, Ant, Maven, Java, Linux Confidential Jr. System Administrator/Linux OS Tester Responsibilities: Installation, configuration, administration of RHEL, Ubuntu, Suse Servers. Remote system administration using tools like SSH, Telnet, and Rlogin. Planning and implementing system upgrades including hardware, operating system and periodical patch upgrades. Applied appropriate support packages/patches to maintain system integrity. Performed capacity analysis, monitored and controlled disk space usage on systems. Monitored system activities and fine-tuned system parameters and configurations to optimize performance and ensure security of systems. Added servers to domain and managing the groups and user in AD, installing and configuring sendmail. Used python experience in working with architectural patterns. Identified bottlenecks and bugs, and devise solutions to these problems. Proficient understanding of code versioning tools (GIT). Worked onLinuxbackup/restore with tar including disk partitioning and formatting. Involved in Planning, building and Administration of various High Availability clusters and heart beat checking on Sun Solaris using VCS in heterogeneous SAN environment. Regular disk management like adding / replacing hot swappable drives on existing servers/workstations, partitioning according to requirements, creating new file systems or growing existing one over the hard drives and managing file systems. Planned, scheduled and Implemented OS patches on Linuxboxes as a part of proactive maintenance. Maintained development tools and utilities and to maintain shell, Perl automation Scripts. Involved in migration of projects from one flavor to another one. Involved in development, user acceptance, and performance testing, production & disaster recovery server. Environment: Red hat Linux 4.x, Sun Fire 4500/ V880 / V480/ E420R/ E450/ E250, Sun StorEdge A1000, A5000, JBODs Compaq servers, Solstice Disk Suite, Oracle 7.x/8.x 