SUMMARY Over 8 + years of experience in IT industry with experience in Development, Systems Administration and Software Configuration Management (SCM). Extensive experience includes SCM, Build/Release Management, and Change/Incident Management. Expertise with UNIX and Windows environments including Shell, Bash and Python scripts. SVN (Subversion), Perforce, GIT, Build forge and TFS. Configured and monitored distributed and multi - platform servers using chef. Defined Chef Server and workstation to manage and configure nodes Involved in several projects setting up builds using Chef., Ansible, Puppet. Extensively worked on monitoring servers using Splunk, NewRelic, Nagios, Cloudwatch and ELK Stack. Launching Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services (Linux/ Ubuntu) Continuous Integration. Build environment by automating Software builds, release and configuration processes. /RHEL) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications. Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and also configured the storage on S3 buckets. Performed S3 buckets creation, policies and also on the IAM role based polices and customizing the JSON template. Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud watch. Managed servers on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform instances using Puppet, Chef Configuration management. Proficient with container systems like Docker and container orchestration like EC2 Container Service, Kubernetes, worked with Terraform. Managed Docker orchestration and Docker containerization using Kubernetes. Used Kubernetes to orchestrate the deployment, scaling and management of Docker Containers. Worked on AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2 AMI, EBS Cloud watch, AWS Config, Auto-scaling, IAM, VPC and AWS S3. Experienced in Amazon EC2 setting up instances and setting up security groups. Setting up databases in AWS using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket. Used Virtualization technologies like VMware, Vagrant. Extensively used build utilities like Maven, ANT for building of jar, war and ear files. Expertise includes bash and python scripting with focus on DevOps tools, CI/CD Architecture and hands-on Engineering. Worked on .NET and build automation and unit testing scripting and maintaining code repository and create, document and manage our branching and merging patterns. Worked on Oracle Application dealing with Patches and dealing with concurrent systems. Expertise in using build tools like MAVEN and ANT for the building of deployable Artifacts such as War & Ear from Source Code. Deploy solution for SaaS Enterprise organization within AWS and Azure. Projects includes Ansible and Terraform automated deployment, documentation, proof of concept build. Services within project scope, Vnets, subnets, OS deployment, Software deployments, patch management, GPO compliance and Windows template standardization Worked with build tools Ant, Maven and Gradle for writing build. xmls, pom.xmls and build.gradles respectively. Written manifests/Recipes and Ruby scripts to customize the Puppet/Chef as per our environment. Launching Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services (Linux/ Ubuntu/RHEL) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications. Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and also configured the storage on S3 buckets. Managed servers on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform instances using Puppet, Chef Configuration management. Good experience to setup, configure continuous build processes using BuildForge/Cruise Control/Hudson, Jenkins, Maven, Ant, Nant, MS build, Subversion and ClearCase, Perl. Build infrastructure design, SCM, GIT, perforce, SVN, Continuous Integration, Continuous Delivery, Preflight builds, Configuration Management, Release Automation, Installers, Packaging, Build languages, Scripting, Python, Ruby, Shell, Ant, Maven, Chef, Mobile, Windows, Linux, Virtual Machines, Apache testing, Sonatype Nexus, Apache tomcat and WebLogic, Static analysis tools Sonar. Worked on integrating Unit Tests and Code Quality Analysis Tools like Cobertura, Sonar, fortify, Clover, PMD, FindBugs and CheckStyle. Configured Volume groups, logical volumes and file systems on Linux. Installation of Patches, Security fixes, packages on AIX, Linux and Windows NT/2000 Servers. Configuration and administration of NFS. Handling Automount. Exposed to all aspects of software development life cycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Planning, Developing, Testing and implementing and Post-production analysis of the projects. Expertise in troubleshooting the problems generated while building, deploying and in production support. Coordinating activities with appropriate teams to meet release and project schedules. Experience supporting Clustered environments like Red hat Clustering and Veritas Clustering. Day-to Day job duties involved but not limited to monitoring the servers using native and third party tools like Nagios. Involved in analysis, planning, system design, implementation, performance monitoring, OS tuning, security, capacity planning, hands-on-implementation and management of corporate system infrastructures. Excellent verbal and written communication skills and strong analytical and problem-solving ability. Provided 24X7 support on the production servers on a rotation basis and was involved in creating documentation. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: RHEL/CentOS 5.x/6.x/7, Ubuntu/Debian/Fedora, Sun Solaris 7/8/9/10, Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 , Unix, Linux DevOps Tools: Chef, Jenkins, Kubernetes, Docker, Puppet, Ant, Maven, Ansible, Hudson & Bamboo Languages: Shell, Bash, Perl, Ruby and Python scripting, JSON, YAML Databases: MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, Oracle Web/App Server: Apache, IIS, HIS, Tomcat, WebSphere Application Server, JBoss Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, Fisheye, Crucible, Rally, Remedy and IBM Clear Quest, Bugzilla, HP Quality Center. Version Control Tools: Subversion, GIT, Tortoise SVN, Visual SVN, Bitbucket, TFS Web Technologies/Programing Languages: Servlets, JDBC, JSP, XML, HTML, .Net, Java Script, Java/J2EE, C, C++, Ruby, Perl scripting, Python, Shell scripting. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Cloud Engineer Confidential, Dublin, CA Responsibilities: Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all of theAWSstack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling using deployment of multi stacked environments throughAWSCloudFormation templates. Managed Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and Chef / Knife Tools that Automate the Provisioning of AWS Services through Cookbooks & Recipes. Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage usingAWSCloud watch. Written Templates for AWS infrastructure as a code using Terraform to build staging and production environments Working on monitoring system performance, User administration setup, adding physical memory to the servers. Rolled outChefto all server and used thechefnode database to drive host configuration, DNS zones, monitoring, backups. Involved with setting up Jenkins, creating jobs for scheduling the ANT and Maven deployments for J2EE application and setting up NEXUS server (to access 3rd party dependencies) for centralized repository and scheduled jobs in Jenkins for MAVEN build. Deployed and configured Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana (ELK) for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and CloudWatch. Using GIT to manage source code developed by various platform engineers. Extensive experience working with AWS provided Solutions like EC2, ELB, VPC, Route 53, RDS, S3, IAM, andCloudWatch. Creating S3 buckets and also managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup onAWS. Createdchefdriven configuration of user accounts.Install packages onchefonly when necessary by managing the attributes. Experienced in Writing Chef Recipes to automate our build/deployment process and do an overall process improvement to any manual processes. Established Chef Best practices approaches to systems deployment with tools such as vagrant, berkshelf and test-kitchen and the treatment of each Chef cookbook as a unit of software deployment, independently version controlled. Working on the source code to generate builds and create procedures for the deployment on the servers for the release. Used Terraform to bring up account of 'container instances' or 'nodes' in an AWS ECS cluster with consul running on each one Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed by Kubernetes, Linux, Bash, GIT, Docker, on GCP. Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploy. Manage AWS EC2 instances utilizing Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancing and Glacier for our environments. Supporting the Application team in making them analyze about the automation implementation and other related issues (if any). Coordinating with QA/DEV/Project/Delivery/Production support/Managers and Performance teams to look into concerns, issues and addressing those aspects to meet the delivery dates. Proposed and implemented several release processes to achieve consistent results and stabilities across environments. Good understanding of Docker Configuration Management Tool. Created/clone new VM from an existing VM/environment and also decommission VM using vagrant. Responsibilities include developing complex build, test, provision, secure and deployment systems and providing support to a large community of developers and testers. Automating The Build process using Subversion (SVN), and ANT. Experience in working with Selenium IDE and Selenium Web Driver using testing. Hands-on experience configuring workflows, writing jobs in Anthill Pro for performing automated builds and deployments. Developed Custom Scripts to monitor repositories, Server storage. Document release metrics, software configuration process. Automated theclouddeployments using chef, Python (boto& fabric) and AWSCloudFormation Templates. Automate deployment and release distribution process. Develop and enhance the automated configuration management system. Control branching and merging of the code base. Implement and manage continuous delivery systems and methodologies on AWS, Used Subversion as source code repositories. Define and deploy monitoring, metrics, and logging systems on AWS. Used ANT,ChefScripts with Ivy to build the application and deploy. Usedcheffor automating infrastructure and continuous delivery Built Chef Development workflow and best practices around configuration management as well as building a strong and diverse internal Chef community. Used PowerShell forDevOpsin Windows-based systems. Define and deploy monitoring, metrics, and logging systems on AWS. Extensively used Perforce as a Configuration Management tool to manage source code. Defined dependencies and plugins in Maven pom.xml for various activities and integrated Maven with GIT to manage and deploy project related tags. Automated the front-ends platform into highly scalable, consistent, repeatable infrastructure using high degree of automation using Chef, Vagrant, Jenkins, andcloudFormation. Maintained all security, policies and project aspects of entire code base using Team Foundation Server 2008 integrated functionality, TFS Power Tools, and Team Foundation Sidekicks. Environment: AWS (EC2, VPC, ELB, S3, RDS, Terraform, Lambda, ELK, Cloud Trail and Route 53), VDI, Git Version Control, VPC, AWS EC2, S3, Kubernetes, Docker, Route53, EBS, IAM, SQL, No SQL, ELB, Cloud watch, Cloud Formation, Jira, Bamboo, AWS CLI, AWS Auto Scaling, Unix/Linux, Shell scripting, Redshift. Kubernetes Engineer / DevOps Engineer Confidential, VA Responsibilities: Managed local deployments in Kubernetes, creating local cluster and deploying application containers. Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installed and configured Kubernetes. Automated Weekly releases with ANT/Maven scripting for Compiling Java Code, Debugging and Placing Builds into Maven Repository. Responsible for designing and deploying best SCM processes and procedures. Used Puppet to automate Configuration management and to manage Web Applications, Configured Files, Data Base, Commands, Users Mount Points and Packages. Deployed and Configured an ELK stack, setup the ELK Stack to collect, search and analyze log files from across servers. Maintained and coordinated environment configuration, controls, code integrity, and code conflict resolution. Configured S3 to host static web content, versioning and lifecycle policies to and backup files and archive Configured an AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and Database Subnet Group for isolation of resources within the Amazon RDS Aurora DB cluster Designed and deployed a highly available and fault tolerant infrastructure on AWS using terraform modules, these modules installs a web application in public subnet and database in private subnet which can communicate using the local route table in the VPC Have deployed various applications through Docker containers. Used AGILE MVN method to develop a build and also ANT as a build tool. Worked on AWS Cloud Formation and Terraform API to build infrastructure on AWS. Worked on infrastructure with Docker containerization. Involved in writing parent POM files to establish the code quality tools integration. Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins CI tool on Linux machines. Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming conventions using GIT source control. AWS EC2 and S3 integration planning. Revision of multiple availability zone Amazon VPC routing to internal network Automates the deployment of Linux applications inside software containers with Docker. Implemented the setup for Master slave architecture to improve the Performance of Jenkins. Used Jenkins, Build forge for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server. Installed and Configured the Nexus repository manager for sharing the artifacts within the company. Migrated the production MySQL schema to the new AWS RDS Aurora instance Managed and supported AWS Security related issues, such IAM and S3 policies for user access Configuration and Deployment of SQL server 2005/2008 Reporting services. Deployed and modified aurproxy, a load balancer manager using nginx for Apache Aurora. Handled deployment of JAR, EAR and WAR files to the respective application server instances. Experience in migrating physical Linux/Windows servers to cloud (AWS). Designed an Architectural Diagram for different applications before migrating into Amazon cloud for flexible, cost-effective, reliable, scalable, high-performance and secured. Developed build and deployment processes for Pre-production environments. Used Subversion as source code repositories. Developed Shell/Python Scripts for automation purpose. Resolved merging issues during rebasing and re-integrating branches by conducting meetings with Development Team Leads. Implemented a production ready, load balanced, highly available, fault tolerant Kubernetes infrastructure. Created private cloud using Kubernetes that supports DEV, TEST environments. Containerized all the Ticketing related applications- Spring Boot Java and Node.Js applications using Docker. Managed Kubernetes charts using Helm. Created reproducible builds of the Kubernetes applications, managed Kubernetes manifest files and Managed releases of Helm packages. Created a Continuous Delivery process to include support building of Docker Images and publish into a private repository- Nexus v3. Maintaining the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53, SES and SNS services in AWS cloud. SupportedITILProcess enforcements for a few applications in accordance with SOX procedures Worked on creation of Change requests and Service requests using ITG. Involved in Research of the project application architecture to support/resolve build, compile, and test issues/problems. Releasing code to testing regions or staging areas according to the schedule published. Participated in all Product Release and Patches. Used Jira as ticket tracking and work flow tool. Environment: AWS Cloud (EC2, VPC, ELB, S3,RDS, Lambda, ELK, Cloud Trail and Route 53), AIX and Windows, Docker, Kubernetes, BMC Remedy, Shell, Python, Web Logic Server 11g, Active Directory, JDK1.7, XML, Anthill Pro, SVN, Jenkins, Maven, Ansible, GIT, Jira, Docker, SQL, J2EE, Puppet, Shell, Perl, ANT, Cruise Control, UNIX, Windows NT/2000 and Web Sphere. DevOps/ Build and Release Engineer Confidential, Minneapolis, MN Responsibilities: Installed/configured/managed Puppet Master/Agent. Wrote custom modules and manifests, downloaded pre-written modules from puppet-forge. Up-gradation or migration of Puppet Community and Enterprise. Classified modules by roles and UsedPuppetlive management as part of orchestration engine. Provided installation & maintenance of Puppet infrastructure and developed Puppet recipe &modules for configuration management. Built a load-balanced, version-controlled,Hiera/r10k-enabled Puppet environment. Wrote, maintained, reviewed and documented modules, manifests,Hieraconfigurations and Git repositories for Puppet Enterprise on RHEL and SLES platforms. Leveraged Puppet open-source, Puppet Enterprise,Hiera, Facter, Puppet DB, r10k, etc. Wrote, maintained and released private Puppet modules, classes, functions, facts, types and providers. Virtual infrastructure utilizingVMwarevSphere suite 5.5 bundled with ESX hosts, vCenter Servers. Configured and deployed Cisco UCS computing clusters withVMwareESXi 5.5 and vCenter 5.5. Worked on server consolidation program through use ofVMwareESX server andVMwareVirtual Center, using Virtual Center, ESX, creating VMs, using/building VM templates and customization files, and scheduling tasks. Upgraded 100+ ESX hosts from ESX 4.0 to ESX 5.0 usingVMwareUpdate Manager tool. UsedPuppetConditional Expression that alters logic e.g. Unless, case and if statement etc to accommodate different OS, issues and to achieve the desired result. Implement multiple CI/CD pipelines as part ofDevOpsrole for our on-premises and cloud-based software. PerformDevOpsfor Linux and Windows platforms using Jenkins, Maven, Nexus, SVN, GitHub, uDeploy, Docker, ansible, chef, AWS. Created and implemented custom Nagios monitoring and managed with Puppet. Configured Puppet to perform automated Deployments. Ensure the use CROSS PLATFORM SYSTEM PROFILING LIBRARY when writingpuppetcode to suit different OS platform e.g., Red hat/ CentOS, Ubuntu, Debian, Solaris OS. Etc ImplementPuppetInheritance to extend existing class definition and use the local scope variable. Deployment and implementation of Puppet. Responsible for writing Manifests to configure nodes. Used MAVEN asbuildtools on java projects for the development ofbuildartifacts on the source code. Writtenbuildscripts from scratch for new projects and for new modules within existing projects. Worked on performance monitoring tools like Iaas, AWS CloudWatch and stack driver Configuration Management and source code repository management using tools like GIT, Subversion (SVN). Participated in thereleasecycle of the product, which involves environments like development QA, UAT and production. Provision using VAGRANT andPUPPETas configuration management tool and use it to automatically deploy applications to fresh/newly built VM during startup time. Creating multi-tier application usingPuppetservices deploy and puppetize a multi-tier instance. Implemented rapid-provisioning and life cycle management for Red Hat Linux using Puppet. Expertise in various branching methodologies, merging and tagging to facilitate defect/change management in conjunction within projects across the organization. Deployed Applications into non-production, BETA, production environments with various Application server technologies like WebLogic and Apache Tomcat. Maintain the tool eco-system that the larger eDiscovery Platform team relies so heavily on, such as JIRA, Confluence, Jenkins, Nexus, and Subversion. Worked on the configuration management tool Puppet for deploying the codes between different environments Deployed JAR, WAR & EAR artifacts into the WebLogic servers and Apache servers. And AutomatedBuildartifacts (jar, war & ear) using continuous integration tools. Configure the setup of every monthlyreleaseon the regular basis for product teams to perform integration testing. Provided the reports using Bean shell scripting in Anthill Pro. Setup the Hudson as continuous Integration tool to integrate the Java project Worked with development team to ensure use of best practices in source code branching, merges and versioning of SVN and GIT repositories. Managed the development activities for the multiple server instances by enabling password less SSH communication between the servers. Managing source code, softwarebuilds, software versioning and detects tracking on all software maintenance tasks and projects. Ensured proper version control, revision labels and baseline management procedures as part of the releaseprocess. Integrated Maven with shell scripts created in Bash to automate the deployments for the Java based applications. Troubleshooting deployment, infrastructure and start up issues on various application servers product line. Planning, scheduling and documenting releases at code freeze periods. Creating alarms inCloudwatch service for monitoring the servers performance, CPU Utilization, disk usage etc. Environment: AWS, S3, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer (ELB), auto scaling groups, VPC, IAM, Cloud Watch, Glacier, Jenkins, Ansible, Maven, Subversion, Ant, Bash Scripts, Git, Docker, Jira and Chef in Linux environment. VERITAS Netback up 4.x/5.x/6.x, Solstice Disk Suite, OpenStack. Build And Release Engineer Confidential Responsibilities: Performed all necessary day-to-day GIT support for different projects. Responsible for design and maintenance of the GIT repositories and the access control Strategies. Created the branches in GIT to implement the parallel development process. Used GIT for branching and merging. Created featured, develop, release branches in STASH (Git) for different application to support releases and CI builds. Setup Jenkins server and build jobs to provide continuous automated builds based on polling the Git source control system during the day and periodic scheduled builds overnight to support development needs using Jenkins, Git, Junit, Maven and Ant. Worked with Development Team Leads and testing teams to establish a build schedule, execute the builds and troubleshoot build failures, if any. Create documents on build process and flow, build script maintenance, user guide for developers for local builds and experienced with TFS. Used Shell/Perl scripts to automate the deployment process. Responsible for automated ClearCase administration tasks using PERL Scripts. Responsible for automated Scheduled Builds/Emergency Builds and Release using ANT scripts for Enterprise application (J2EE). Created and Maintained Subversion Branching, Merging and tagging across each production releases and perform builds using BuildForge Continuous Integration using maven Build scripts. Assist developers in integrating their code with the main stream. Merged conflicting code to ensure release to test environments. Created automated build procedures to ensure code is always ready for deployment. Installed, Configured Jenkins for running Continuous Integration, Automated Deployments into different environments. Designed and implemented CI and CD Environment with all the required checkpoints to ensure highest quality of applications to push to next environments. Environment: Subversion, Hudson, Anthill Pro, Apache Ant, Maven, WebSphere, WebLogic, Korn Shell scripting Unix/Linux Administrator Confidential  Responsibilities: Worked on Installation, Configuration & Upgrade of Linux, Solaris, AIX and Windows operating system. Controlled 100+ servers on ESXi 4/5, RHEL 4/5/6 & AIX 5.3 / 6.1 as a primary System Administrator Experience in creation of environments on virtual machines to be handed over to development and QA teams. Worked on Installation, configuration and maintain Web and Application Servers including Apache, tomcat and jboss. Worked on creating new file system, managing & checking data consistency of the file system. Good experience in installation, up gradation of VMware ESX 4.1 Experience in implementing load balancing using modjk. Maintaining the CPU & Memory utilization of Servers reports on the WEB. Prepared documentation of understanding, deployment instructions for production releases and updated operation procedures. Experience in performance monitoring and performance tuning using top, prstat, sar, vmstat, ps, iostat etc. Experience in user and group administration, management and archiving. Maintenance on systems by timely upgrading Patches to the systems and scheduling of batch jobs and cron jobs. Configuring NFS, Auto-mount and disk space management on SUN servers. Worked on kernel patching, upgrades, backups on multiple environments of ESXi and Linux Performed OS Installation, configuration, Upgrades, Patches and migrations. Allocated the SAN as per requirement of the app/DB forecast and extended the file system, which are under Veritas, Linux and AIX LVMs Performed backup management through regular ufsdump, ufsrestore, fbackup, F-Recovery and DLT tape drives. Maintain and monitor all system frameworks and provide after call support to all systems and maintain optimalLinuxknowledge. Periodic checks of production and development systems; CPU utilization, memory profiles, disk utilization, network connectivity, system log files, etc. Developed Automation Scripts using shell scripts to check the log files size, and report the application. Package management using RPM, YUM and UP2DATE in Red Hat Linux. Extensive use of Logical Volume Manager (LVM), creating Volume Groups, Logical volumes and disk mirroring in HP-UX, AIX and Linux. Troubleshooting Linux network, security related issues, capturing packets using tools such as IPtables, firewall, TCP, wrappers, NMAP. Experience with Java Enterprise Application Servers such as Oracle WebLogic, Oracle Application Server, JBOSS, and Apache Tomcat Environment: Sun Solaris 2.6/7, SUN Ultra Enterprise 6000/450, SUN Ultra 10/5/2/1, Windows NT 4.0, RHEL 4/5/6. 