SUMMARY IT professional with over 8+ years of experience in working onDevOps/Agile operations, Configuration Management, Cloud Infrastructure, Automation. It includes Amazon Web services (AWS), Maven, Jenkins, SVN, GitHub, Tomcat, Ansible, Docker and Linux etc. Experience in Installation, Configuration, Upgrading, Support and Maintenance of various platforms of Linux like RHEL, SUSE, CentOS, Ubuntu, and Windows Servers including VMware and V - Sphere ESX/ESXi environments. Performed modification of Bash shell scripts for day-to-day administration purposes. Expertise in source code management using GIT, CVS and well versed in code management using Repositories. Implemented Continuous Integration and Continuous deployment using various CI Tools like Jenkins. Experience in creating Jenkins Environment and configuring end to end build pipelines. Integrated Jenkins with the version control tools to pull the latest pushed code. Expertise in using build tools like MAVEN for the building of deployable Artifacts such as war and ear from Source Code. Strong exposure to creating Docker Images and Containers. Used Docker to manage microservices for development and testing. Experience with Infrastructure Automation Tools like Ansible, Puppet Knowledge in configuring DNS, NIS, NFS, LDAP, FTP remote access on Linux. Experience in monitoring teams to identify and troubleshoot issues on servers using tools like Nagios, Zabbix and Xymon. Worked on BMC Remedy and JIRA, ticketing tools for handling and generating tickets. Proficient in creating and maintaining user accounts, profile, security rights, disk space and process monitoring. TECHNICAL SKILLS DevOps/Cloud: Jenkins, GIT, SVN, Puppet, Ansible, Artifactory, Maven, AWS, Docker, Kubernetes. Languages and Technologies: Unix (Sun Solaris 10), Linux (RHEL 6,7), Shell scripting -bash, SQL ITSM tool: BMC Remedy, Service-now and Jira. Networking tools: NFS, DNS, NIS, Sendmail, and LDAP Monitoring Tools: Nagios, Zabbix, Geneos, Komodo. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Sr. DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Launching Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Images (Linux/ Ubuntu) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications. Responsible for defining branching & merging strategy, check-in policies, improving code quality. Used GIT as source code repositories. Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Bash to automate routine jobs. Installed, Configured and Administered Jenkins Continuous Integration Tools. Experience in using build automation tools like MAVEN for the building of deployable artifacts such as WAR, JAR & EAR from source code. Experience with Linux/UNIX environments, BASH Shell and Perl scripting for monitoring server’s health by setting it via Cron and for Build & Release automation. Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins, Ansible, Maven &Artifactory in Linux environment. Used Maven as build tool on Java projects for the development of build Artifacts on the source code. Deployed the Java applications into Apache Tomcat Application Servers. Experience with configuration and deployment tool Ansible. Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) users and groups for improved login authentication. Used Kubernetes during debugging. Leading up to production when multiple application build must be tested for stability. Implemented cluster services using Docker and Kubernetes. Installed, Configured, Managed Monitoring Tools such as Nagios for Resource Monitoring/Network Monitoring/Log Trace Monitoring. Organized and Coordinated Product Releases work closely with product development, QA, Support across global locations to ensure successful releases. Creating and maintaining user accounts, profiles, permissions, disk usage and process monitoring and managing the tickets via BMC Remedy. Supporting 24x7 production computing environments and providing on-call and weekend support. Environment: AWS, Git, Maven, Jenkins, Kubernetes, Docker, Linux administration, BMC Remedy, Ansible. Confidential Sr.DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Used GIT as source code repositories. Managed GIT repositories for branching, merging, and tagging. Analyse and resolve conflicts related to the merging of source code for GIT. Administration and support of Linux and Unix Servers including Red hat Linux and CentOS. Setup and Configured Red Hat Satellite/Kickstart Servers for Red hat Enterprise Linux 5/6 installs. Experienced in using Perl, Bash shell scripting for Applications, Scheduling cron jobs, Configuring new clients for Backups. Optimized Unix/Linux shell scripts using Bash shells for administration and troubleshooting the application related errors/issues on daily basis based on logs. Experience in creating Jenkins CI/CD pipelines and good experience in automating deployment pipelines. Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with GIT and Maven to schedule the builds. ImplementedMavenbuilds for creatingJAR, WAR artifact. Built end to end CI/CD Pipelines in Jenkins to retrieve code, compile applications, perform tests and push build artifacts to Nexus Monitoring the health of the servers using various monitoring tools like xymon, Zabbix, Nagios and resolving various issues with jobs on PBS. Installing and configuring Jenkins master and slave nodes. Built CI/CD pipeline and managing the infrastructure as code using chef. Managed NetApp networked appliances and used Nagios and xymon as an infrastructure monitoring tool to identify and resolve infrastructure problems before they affect critical processes Comfortable in opening cases with vendors, working with different teams and driving them to closure. Hands on experience on troubleshooting, restarting/rebooting servers when required. Tested Virtualization of the servers using the Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs. Worked with project managers, developers, quality assurance and customers to resolve technical issues. Being the owner of daily account activities, ensuring that all the processes are being followed as per quality and SOW mentioned. Managing the daily Operations call of the account; working on getting daily updates on high severity issues. Track Situation Management events and lead the SITMAN bridges till the closure and resolution of the issue via Incident Management process. Ensure that changes are represented, document and approved via a successful change management process. Feeding problem managers in case of failed changes. Responsible for driving efficiency and service improvements to ensure that the practiced processes are aligned to ITIL standards and are strictly adhering to the organisation’s quality norms. Creating and providing aging reports and following up with respective assignee groups on closure of long aged tickets. Monitoring the overall functioning of processes, identifying improvement areas and implementing adequate measures to maximize customer satisfaction level. Environment: Git, Maven, Jenkins, AWS, Docker, Linux, BMC Remedy, Ansible, Puppet, SQL, Nagios, Zabbix, Xymon. Confidential Software Engineer Responsibilities: FCC or Fix Client Connectivity is a system used by Confidential for equity trading. The responsibility of FCC is to setup the connections for different clients (adding new users), maintaining the sessions, parsing the FIX messages, routing them to the appropriate desks on 'the trading floor, managing the complete connectivity of the client via DB. As a system analyst to provide support and to ensure the stability of FCC application components using various tools like Geneos, Komodo and used Jira as our ticketing tool. Working on production deployments like configuring the appia engines, writing code for routing trades and modification of existing code as per customer requirements. Creation of VMs for Red hat Linux on VMWare and administering them with VI Client. Change and release management using GCM tool. Speaking to client/vendor to bring up the Fix sessions, Investigation on eod failures and session downs. Worked closely with global customers spanning 3 time zones to resolve issues. Environment: Unix/Linux, Jira, Komodo, Geneos, VMware, GCM 