SUMMARY Over 15, years of experience as senior manufacturing/process engineer in developing, improving and transferring processes to contract manufacturing (CM) sites. Experienced within quality systems, and validation (IQ, OQ, PQ), FEMA, DMAIC, Gage R&R, NCR and statistical process control (SPC). Experienced in providing detailed engineering analysis and documentation, BOM, Routers and SOPS. Designing test fixtures and tooling for existing and new products. Training manufacturing staff, troubleshooting equipment and processes, and Created, developed, and maintained written instructions for manufacturing processes. Worked with Research and Development in the transition of products into production, Selecting and Qualifying new materials, medical material and suppliers. Managing and participating as a team with Quality, R&D, Sustaining Engineering, procurement, and Contract Manufacturing Organization to ensure successful transfer and ongoing production of Finished Medical Devices at Contract Manufacturers (CM’s). Led process evaluations/process optimization utilizing tools such as SPC, DOE, PFEMA and MSA. New Process Development and scale - up Process improvement and stabilization Technology transfer Project planning and scheduling Talent management, team building, mentoring, and leadership Lean Six Sigma green belt (Kanban, Poke Yoke, JIT, Value Stream Mapping) Problem Solving PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Mansfield, MA Senior Manufacturing/Process Engineer Responsibilities: Managing transfer and supporting of Confidential products and processes to Contract Manufacturing (CM) sites. Managing and participating as a team with Quality, R&D, Sustaining Engineering, Procurement, Regulatory, Sourcing and Contract Manufacturing Organization to ensure successful transfer and ongoing production of Finished Medical Devices at Contract Manufacturers (CM’s). Managing technical aspects of product and process transition to contract manufacturing partners. Ensuring manufacturing processes adequately demonstrate specified process control capabilities. Providing technical support and guidance to Contract Manufacturer for engineering issues. Conducting, coordinating and aiding in formal process validations including protocol development and execution. Managing all aspects of ECO process into Contract Manufacturing organization. Ensuring new processes have adequately demonstrated specified process and test control capabilities, through being the champion of PFMEA, DFM, DFT, DFSS, CAPA and NCR. Providing guidance to Contract Manufacturer in designs and evaluating new and existing fixtures and equipment, test methods, specifications, layouts and standards supporting a lean manufacturing environment. Ensuring adherence to product specifications, industry standards and FDA Quality Systems Regulations and ISO Quality Systems. Supporting process verification and validation activities. Selecting and Qualifying new materials and suppliers. Confidential, Mansfield, MA Senior Manufacturing Engineer Responsibilities: Provided daily production support to set up, trouble shoot, and monitor manufacturing medical device related assembly processes and equipment. Identified and implemented programs that reduced operational costs, improved quality, productivity and increase yield. Created, developed, and maintained written instructions for manufacturing processes. Developed and implemented process controls for manufacturing to ensure repeatability, reliability, and quality of products and processes. Performed Validations (IQs/OQs/PQs) following internal protocols when new or used equipment is identified for use in production. Managed and participated in projects from concept to finish device, product development, medical material selection, regulatory requirements and specification, project planning, process optimization, packaging, and automation. Led process evaluations/process optimization utilizing tools such as SPC, DOE, PFEMA and, MSA. Responsible for establishing the Manufacturing Quality Plan (MQP) for a product line including process flow, production floor layout, equipment and line balancing. Participated in the introduction of new products into manufacturing, collaborating with R&D and suppliers to improve product robustness and manufacturability both pre-and post- release. Conducted root cause failure analysis and corrective action. Led Lean Six Sigma projects of significant scope and complexity. Supported business development, ISO 13485 compliance activities, risk management/FEMA activities, audits and technical training. Confidential, Mansfield, MA SR. Process/Manufacturing engineer Responsibilities: Provided leadership to manufacturing engineering activities for process/product development, scaling of technical operations and provided technical support for production. Identified and implemented programs that reduced operational costs, improved quality, productivity and increased yield. Optimized manufacturing processes and equipment. Created, developed, and maintained written instructions for manufacturing processes. Developed and implemented process controls for manufacturing to ensure repeatability, reliability, and quality of products and processes. Provided training to production personnel on processes and equipment. Worked with Research and Development in the transition of products into production. Actively participated in the development of new products and processes to promote business growth and productivity targets, including scale-up, equipment and process qualification and validation. Reviewed product field returns to determine root cause of potential manufacturing defects then developed and implemented effective corrective actions Utilizing Lean/Six Sigma manufacturing methods to improve processes and reduced waste. Drove root cause identification and resolution of process and product upsets. Monitored and improved processes using statistics and SPC. Confidential, Marlboro, MA SR. Process Engineer Responsibilities: Provided technical leadership implementing major capital projects. Provided hands-on problem solving support to manufacturing/testing of specialty chemicals. Identified and led activities for improvements related to safety, cost, quality, yields, capacity, and production goals. Optimized processes using Lean manufacturing and six sigma methodology, developed and implemented improvements to processes and production operations, resulting in 36% improvement in productivity. Analyzed operating data from manufacturing processes using statistical tools, both proactively (statistical quality/process control) and reactively (troubleshooting). Assisted both production and maintenance personnel in troubleshooting and correcting problems related to yields, quality and environmental compliance. As necessary, assisted area leadership and developed leadership skills through interaction within manufacturing team. Confidential, Worcester, MA Senior Process Engineer Responsibilities: Supported all manufacturing areas used in the fabrication of IC’s and sensor products during 12 hour shift. Developed and improved manufacturing methods and procedures and equipment directed at reducing costs while maintaining quality standards. Developed quality specifications and requirements for all products. Supervised staff of 8 process engineering personnel. Appropriately dispositioned discrepant material using NCR system.