TECHNICAL SKILLS Security Tools:  AppDetect, AppRador, Oracle IdentityManager, Oracle Access Manager,JHijack, Metasploit Pro, ZED attack proxy, SQLMAP, Wireshark, WebScarab, Paros, Nmap, BMC BladeLogic, Nessus, Rapid7 Nexpose, Tripwire, Symantec Vontu, DBProtect, ArcSight SIEM, e - DMZ Password Auto DBProtect, ArcSight SIEM, e-DMZ Password AutoRepository (PAR), Varonis, Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud security. Port/Vulnerability Scanning:  Nmap/Nmap Scripting Networking Symantc Vontu DLP, Checkpoint, PaloEngine (NSE), Netcat, Nessus, Openvas Alto, Check Point, Cisco, IDS/IPS, Anti-virus, BMCPassword Cracking Hydra, Rainbow Crack, BladeLogic, Remedy.0phcrack, John the Ripper, Pyrit. DAST and SAST tools:  IBM AppScan EnterpriseScripting Languages AngularJS, XML, XSLT, XPath, (ASE), Standard & Source editions, HP WebInspect, XQuery, HTML/JavaScript/JQuery, QualysGuard, BurpSuite Pro, Acunetix, Fortify SCA,AJAX.Middleware TIBCO EMS, IBM WebSphere SQLMAPMQ, JMSDatabases Oracle, MS SQL Server, Sybase. Operating Systems:  Oracle Solaris UNIX, RedHat Application Servers Weblogic Server, iPlanet, LINUX 4/5, Windows Server2003/2008. Netscape Application Server and Microsoft Java & J2EE Technology Spring Framework, EJBs,IIS. Languages:  Java, Python, C/C++, C#.NET, Perl, Struts2, Servlets, JavaServerPages (JSPs), JMS, JavaUML. Mail API, JNDI, LDAP, JDBC, JTS, RMI, AWT, Swing, Socket Programming, IONA Orbix CORBA. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Tampa, FL Sr. Security Engineer Responsibilities: Completed proof-of-concept thin-client web framework for enterprise intelligence applications with web developer under extreme deadline. Developed Application Security program (DAST and SAST) at the enterprise level to identify, report and remediate security vulnerabilities from applications deployed in DEV, PRE-PROD and PROD environments. Designed, documented and executed maintenance procedures, including system upgrades, patch management and system backups. Specifically, security testing has been performed to identify XML External Entity (XXE), Cross-Site Scripting, ClickJacking, and SQL Injection related attacks within the code. Developed threat modeling framework (STRIDE, DREAD) for critical applications to identify potential threats during the design phase of applications. Implemented file system security by applying hashing techniques for protecting data stored in files on the file servers. Administered cryptography, certificate management and implemented dual keys to address segregation of duties issue between DBAs and security admins. Active Directory Federation Services Implementation ( ADFS- SSO) in Windows-Linux client server PKI environment. Implemented CyberArk Privileged Account Security solutions across the enterprise supporing various business lines. Installed, configured and deployed CyberArk Enterprise Security Vault to administer privileged passwords and also set up policies for accessing passwords within the acceptable timeframes. Configured CyberArk Password Session Manager (PSM) to control privilege sessions for UNIX and Windows based applications and DBs. Also, the audit logs have been enabled and utilized for forensics investigations. SSL certificate for intranet / internet / web applications using Active Directory Certificate Services (ADCS) in MS Windows Servers and MS Azure. Configured users computers and organization units using Active Directory domains and users in MS Server Manager. Reviewed source code (Java/J2EE/Spring/FTL/JavaScript/JQuery). Administered encryption, certificate management, key generation and implemented dual keys to address segregation of duties issue between DBAs and security admins. Developed Security Operations Centre (SOC) policies and proceedings for reviewing and monitoring security events. Participated in analyzing security incidents as part of the SOC detection and response team activity. Provided oversight of all changes to corporate firewalls, including pre-implementation analysis and approval, and post-implementation auditing. Identifying and remediating any threats and vulnerabilities as a Security Monitoring (SOC), Triage and Escalation to T2. Developed security requirements for applications and infrastructure deployed in the Cloud. Configured AWS Simple Storage Service (S3) to securely store the organization’s critical file systems. Implemented Access Control Lists (ACLs) and Bucket Policies for controlling access to the data. Ensured that Cloud security best practices have been followed. Implemented multiple layers of security, including security groups, network access control lists, to control access to Amazon EC2 instances in each subnet. Developed AWS Service Roles to protect Identity Provider access. Participated in the implementation of AWS Cloud security for applications being deployed in the Cloud. Participated in the development of IT risk assessments for enterprise applications. Reviewed source code (Java/J2EE/Spring/FTL/JavaScript) and developed security filters within IBM AppScan for critical applications. IAM solutions developed with Azure and managed Enterprise Mobility and Security (EMS) Managed a team of analysts and service providers who support the various Identity Access Management (IAM) and Data Loss Prevention (DLP) functions. Developed and maintained IAM policies, standards, and practices. Helped to establish a formal review process that promoted strong collaboration among a wide range of policy, standard, and practice leaders and groups. Troubleshooted and resolved web application issues escalated from customer support and other departments with a 100% success rate. Troubleshooted and resolved web application issues escalated from customer support and other departments with a 100% success rate. Configured SafeNet ProtectDB to enable column level encryption for securing confidential customer data. Designed security architecture for web and mobile apps. Reviewed Solution overview Documents (SODs) to identify security anomalies in the system architecture and design, and provided recommendations to address data security and privacy concerns. Conducted security assessments to ensure compliance to firm's security standards (i.e., OWASP Top 10, SANS25). The NIST framework has been utilized for IT risk assessments. Rolled out IBM AppScan products such as AppScan Enterprise (ASE), Standard, Source, Checkmarx, Developer plug-ins to various development teams across the business lines. Installed and supported over 30 Microsoft Windows Servers in an Active Directory Cluster. Prepared technical architecture proposals for enhancements and integration of existing third party software systems. Generated executive summary reports showing the security assessments results, recommendations (CWE, CVE) and risk mitigation plans and presented them to the respective business sponsors and senior management. Conducted monthly developer workshops to educate and train developers on secureSDLC, scan source code using IBM AppScan Source, triage and resolve the security vulnerabilities. Working knowledge of AWS Cloud Security in implementing Web Application Firewalls (WAF). Implemented Multifactor Authentication (MFA) for AWS root accounts, including password rotation policies. Experience in implementing Security Incident and Event Management System (SIEM) using HP ArcSight and Splunk. Instrumental in architecting, implementing and administrating a Security and Information Event Management (SIEM) solution (QRADAR) to automate the correlation of I-Series, Windows and network devices. Utilized QRADAR for internal and External IDS, in addition to Cisco IPS. Reviewed Azure network security architecture and implemented security controls. Specifically, Azure virtual networks, including on-premise connectivity, traffic filtering, secure communication, point-to-site VPN etc., Implemented Network Security Groups (NSG) to control network traffic to various Azure network resources. Created NSG rules (inbound and outbound) and prioritized the rules based on the requirements. Associated NSGs to VMs, NICs, and subnets based on the deployment model. Validated database security for SQL servers deployed in Azure Cloud environment. Implemented Integrated Windows authentication supported by Azure Active Directory. Set up Access Keys and Secret Assess Keys for newly created users. Participated in the implementation of AWS Cloud security for applications being deployed in the Cloud. Developed WACLS for AWS Web Application Firewalls (WAF) and configured the rules and conditions to detect security vulnerabilities in the Cloud Front. Doing multiple level of testing before production to ensure smooth deployment cycle. Performed vulnerability testing using tools such as Nessus and Qualysguard. Maintains network performance by performing network monitoring and analysis, and performance tuning, troubleshooting network problems. Skilled using Burp Suite, Acunetix Automatic Scanner, NMAP, Dirbuster, Qualysguard, Nessus, SQLMap for web application penetration tests and infrastructure testing. Proficient in understanding application level vulnerabilities like XSS, SQL Injection, CSRF, authentication bypass, cryptographic attacks, authentication flaws etc. Confidential, Bridgewater, NJ Sr. Security Engineer Responsibilities: Expertise in using the DAST tools (Like IBM Appscan and Burpsuite Pro) while the application is running to penetrate the application in various ways to identify potential vulnerabilities outside the code and in third party interfaces. Analyzed security incidents originated from various network/application monitoring devices (e.g., Symantec Vontu DLP) and coordinated with Engineering teams for tracking and problem escalation, including remediation. Performed the penetration testing of mobile (Android and iOS) applications, specifically, APK reverse engineering, traffic analysis and manipulation, dynamic runtime analysis. Developed secureSDLC policies and standards for Web and Mobile apps. Working knowledge of SSO implementation for the applications deployed in MS Azure cloud platform. Integrated CyberArk with Active Directory LDAP for user authentication. Implemented CyberArk Privileged Account Security Solution for controlling access to enterprise assets. Implemented enterprise-wide IAM solution. Experience with Identity and Access Management (IAM) and development of user roles and policies for user access management. Enabled threat detection for databases in the Azure portal. The security alerts generated in the Azure Security Center have been reviewed and remediated. Implemented Azure Key Vault for storing secrets. Developed security controls for implementing Azure storage security. The RBAC with Azure AD has been implemented for securing the storage account. The data transmission between applications and Azure has been secured by client-side encryption, HTTPS, SMB3.0. Azure disk encryption has been implemented for encrypting OS and data disks Developed, implemented and migrated applications based on NIST Framework. Developed information assurance (IA) designs to meet specific operational needs and environmental factors Participated in the implementation of AWS Cloud security for applications being deployed in the Cloud. Developed WACLS and configured to rules and conditions to detect security vulnerabilities in the Cloud Front. Experience with SaaS applications in configuring and deploying to the cloud platform Worked with DevOps teamsto automate security scanning into the build process. Worked extensively with software development teams to review the source code, triage the security vulnerabilities generated by IBM AppScan, BurpSuite, HP WebInspect, HP Fortify, Checkmarx and eliminated false positives. Reviewed Android and iOS mobile source code manually and recommended code fixes. Participated in the Proof of Concept (POC) in implementing Arxan application protection software for Mobile apps. Performed Root Cause Analysis for the incidents reported at Security Operations Center. Performed Security event monitoring of heterogeneous networks such as Firewalls, IDS/IPS, CiscoASA, DLP devices using Splunk. Solved many problems on call with my knowledge on the applications using event logs on the system / server and telemetry logs on the server, later started using Splunk for health monitoring, analysis and reporting. Wrote load balancing scripts on servers using PowerShell on Windows Server 2008 in order to perform Network load balancing and later started Network load balancing using Citrix NetScaler ADC. Used Remedy Information Technology Service Management (ITSM) tool for managing the incidents based on the priorities and solved issues which are in security domain. Generated Vulnerability reports to monitor health of the applications and also reported High, Medium and low vulnerabilities in these system. Troubleshoot network application inbound/outbound connectivity utilizing Cisco WSA proxies and Wireshark. Actively involved on Bridges in solving High / Severe incidents reported in the application or in environment. Reported all my findings on the incident status to the higher management, clients in timely fashion. Held Responsibility for Securing and Maintaining 14 legacy applications, 10 geographically separated application servers and around 200 Citrix Servers along with a small team. Environment: Firewalls, IDS/IPS, Cisco ASA, DLP, ITSM, WireShark, NetScaler, Splunk. Confidential, New York, NY Security Engineer Responsibilities: Provided project planning, guidance and technical expertise in program, policy, process, and planning; risk management, auditing, and assessments; A&A; and quality planning and control. Researched and analyzed known hacker methodology, system exploits and vulnerabilities to support Red Team Assessment activities Performed advanced security testing of F5 load balancers, Websense V10K & BlueCoat Proxies using virtual machines, security tools, and URL generator. Assisted with the update and administration of all SOX audit requirements from an IT internal controls perspective. Provided with Threat profiling of the application to the Client and prepared combined reports of level of risks, their trend, and frequency to the client Conducted white/gray box penetration testing on the financial systems using Kali Linux, Cobalt Strike for OWASP top 10 Vulnerabilities like XSS, SQL Injection, CSRF, Privilege Escalation and all the test-case of a web application security testing QRadar licensing updates by adding new license under Admin and System and License Management Ironport URL filtering for known bad URL content Ironport Mail analysis and blocking for known bad emails Analysis of pcap files using FireEye and Wireshark System audit and analysis using DOD checklist for PA series Threat and virus scanning using Malwarebytes from centralized console Enforcement of policies and procedures for users, admins, and management Reverse engineering of malware using tools like malware, process hacker and so on Incident response tabletop exercise by documenting and alerting necessary personnel Environment: Load Balancers, OWASP, Kali Linux. Confidential Web developer Responsibilities: Developed company's principal Website, the lead generation mechanism for selling insurance over the Internet. Developed complete front & back end using JSPs & Servlets, Java Beans. Designed and developed effective internal Web applications, relational database and stored procedures to analyze and monitor all activities related to Web-based sales. Developed application presentation layer, which is based on Spring MVC framework involving JSP, Servlets and HTML, CSS. Involved in implementing SOAP as well as RESTful web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX- RS, SOAP UI and JERSEY. Developed this web application to store all system information in a central location. This was developed using Spring MVC, jQuery, JSP, Servlet, Oracle 10g, HTML and CSS. Automated sales monitoring and credit/identity verification application processes, decreasing costs and improving quality. Created documents related to System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables. Assisted in business process design and documentation as needed for new technology solution implementations.