SUMMARY AWS/DevOps Engineer with 7+ years of experience in software configuration and Build Release Management. Strong Expertise in designing, configuring and deploying Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applicationsutilizing theAWSstack (Including IAM Roles, VPC, EC2, S3, RDS, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch) for high - availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling. Experience in building an automated build pipeline and deployment, by implementing DevOpsprinciples CI/CDand agile software development methodologies to seamlessly deliverhigh quality software applications to teh end users at teh speed of need generating value for thecompany and teh customers. Experience in designing, developing, deploying and operating highly available cost effective and fault tolerant systems using multiple EC2 instances, Elastic load balancing and Auto Scaling. Hands on experience in Deployments withCloudFormationand launch configurations to automate repeatable provisioning of AWS resources for applications. Experience in continuous integration technologies like Jenkins and developed End-to-End automation solution for build and deployments. Experience in creating alarms in AWSCloudWatch for monitoring teh server performance, CPU utilization, disk usage to take recommended actions for better performance. Expertise in SCM strategy and experience with IT Infrastructure Administration bydelivering high standards of IT solutions and services. Experienced inChange and Release Management, Enhancement, Maintenance and Conversion of Software Applications. Worked on Linux,AWS, Python, GIT, Maven, Jenkins, Ansible, Nagios, Docker, Grafana, Kubernetes, CI/CD in day-to-day build and release cycles. Expertise in configuration management and automation using teh industry leading tools such as Ansible. Expertise in using builds tools like Maven, ANT for teh building of deployable artifacts such as war and jar from source code. Designed and developed Continuous Deployment pipelines, integrating Git and Jenkins. Expert in using Jenkins to automate most of teh build related tasks and set up Continuous Integration for major releases. Performed branching, tagging and maintained teh version across various environments using SCM tools like Git, Subversion (SVN). Experience in writing scripts to handle automation tasks using Shell, Bash, Python and Groovy. Strong working experience with Database Management Systems MySQL, AWS-RDS and DynamoDB. Hands on Experience with Docker container in teh Automation Deployment. Also aware of several Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, Machine. Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, scale and manage Docker containers with multiplenames spaced versions. Experience in writing playbooks for Ansible and deploying applications using Ansible. Configured Nagios to monitor EC2 Linux instances with puppet automation. Managed on-shore / off-shore relationships with teh goal of becoming teh point person for teh business and IT teams. Strong ability to troubleshoot any issues generated while building, deploying and during production support. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: C, Java, Python, SQL Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JavaScript/jQuery Scripting Languages: Bash/Shell, Groovy Databases: MySQL 5.5 Development Tools: Eclipse Luna (4.4), NetBeans 8.1 CI/CD Tools: Jenkins, Maven, ANT, Gradle Configuration Tools: Chef, Ansible Version Control Tools: Git, GitHub, SVN Operating Systems: Linux (Ubuntu 11.0), Microsoft Windows Family Servers: Apache Tomcat 6, WebLogic, WebSphere AWS Services: VPC, EC2, ELB, Auto Scaling, S3, RDS, DynamoDB, CloudWatch, CloudFormation, Route 53, SNS, SQS, Direct Connect Virtualization Tools: Oracle Virtual Box, VMware Workstation, Docker Monitoring Tools: Nagios PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE AWS/DevOps Engineer Confidential, Chicago, IL Responsibilities: Managed Dependencies, automated and executed tasks needed in order to process and prepare source code for deployment like compiling, also packaged teh application for deployment. Build and configured a virtual data center in teh Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse hosting including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Public and PrivateSubnets, SecurityGroups, RouteTables, ElasticLoadBalancer andtested AWS. Involved in Architecting, building and maintain Highly Available secure multi-zone AWS cloud infrastructure utilizing Chef and Ansible with AWS CloudFormation and Jenkins for Continuous Integration. Implemented a CI/CD pipeline involving SCM, Jenkins, Chef, Docker, Kubernetes, Maven for complete automation from commit to deployment. Worked on AWS Code Deploy and Auto Scaling Groups to implement Blue-Green Deployments for teh various releases moving forward. Created snapshots and Amazon Machine Images (AMI) of teh instances for backup. Implemented Amazon EC2 by setting up instances, Virtual Private Cloud (VPCs), and security groups and by automating teh process of launching and stopping/terminating EC2 instances on AWS. Used AWS Console and AWS CLI for deploying and operating AWS services specifically VPC, EC2, S3, EBS, IAM, ELB, CloudFormation and CloudWatch. Proficient in writing Terraform configuration files to create custom VPC’S, subnets, NAT, EC2 instances, ELB’s and Security groups. Created Identity Access Management (IAM) policies for delegated administration within AWS. Used IAM to create new accounts, roles and groups and polices and developed critical modules like generating amazon resource numbers and Integration points with DynamoDB, RDS. Involved in QA, Dev, Test and Prod environments of different applications on AWS by provisioning clusters on EC2 instances using Docker, Bash, and Chef. Deployed teh Microservices using Docker containers Implemented Branching, Merging, Tagging and maintaining teh version across teh environments using SCM tools like Git, GitHub on Linux platforms for Microservices. Build Java code on to different Jenkins servers as per teh schedule. Have written automated scripts using Ant for build and deploy process and integrated it with Maven. Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack monitoring using Ansibleplaybooks and TEMPhas Integrated Ansible with Jenkins. Extensively worked on Jenkins for Continuous Integration and for End-to-End automation for all build and Deployments for microservices. Leveraged Docker Engine to run Multiple Tomcat Instances as Containerized App Servers. Utilized Docker with Jenkins for teh deployment of artifacts and Kubernetes for Orchestrating containers. Automated Compute Engine and Docker Image Builds with Jenkins and Kubernetes Monitored both teh infrastructure and teh application by alerting and aggregating teh information using Nagios. Environment: AWS VPC, ELB, AMI, IAM, CloudWatch, CloudFormation, API Gateway, Lambda, DynamoDB, S3, EC2, Ansible, Docker, Jenkins, Git, Tomcat, WebLogic, Kubernetes, Java, Maven, Nagios. DevOps Engineer Confidential, Plano, Texas Responsibilities: DevOps Engineer for a team that involved different development teams and multiple simultaneous software releases and efficient two-way code synchronization every day, Build, Release, Test accordingly. Managed and improvised teh build infrastructure for global software development teams including implementation of build, continuous integration (CI) and deployment (CD). Plan, deploy, monitor, and maintain Amazon AWS cloud infrastructure consisting of multiple EC2instances. Assisted developers in writing cookbooks for deploying product applications in development. Installed and configured Nagios as monitoring tool for disk usage, CPU utilization, list of open files etc. and sending alerts to our teams based on teh same. Generated and maintained teh Project SCM plans. Created hooks and managed permissions on teh branches for subversion. Work closely with developers, QA teams, Product owners and other stakeholders to deliver software through teh build and deployment system. Created Python scripts to automate AWS services, which includes web servers, ELB, Cloud front distribution, database, ec2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration, dis script creates stacks, single servers, or joins web servers to stacks. Implemented zero downtime deployment process in Web Logic using Python and shell script and automated it using Jenkins. Applied redirection rules in Apache based on redirection conditions provided by developers. Responsible for writing Manifests to configure nodes. Configure Linux environments in both public and private domains. Experienced in installing, upgrading, patching, configuring and administrating Red Hat Linux. Triggering teh SIT environment build of client remotely through Jenkins. Deployed and configured Chef Server and Chef Solo including bootstrapping of chef client nodes for provisioning; Created roles, cookbooks, recipes, and data bags for server configuration, deployment, and app stack build outs. Deploy builds to production and work with teh teams to identify and troubleshoot any issues. Environment: RedHat Linux, AWS, EC2, subversion, GIT, GitHub, Jenkins, TeamCity, Chef, Puppet, Puppet Puppet DB, Nagios, Python, ELK, Web Logic, Gradle, Apache, RDS, Route 53, VPC, RDB, Dynamo DB, SES, SQS, SNS. DevOps Engineer Confidential, Wayne, PA Responsibilities: Part of core engineering team designing teh new platform to host applications in AWS/Chef and Jenkins environment. Build and administrate Continuous Delivery pipelines using Git, Jenkins. Worked with Development and QA teams to continuously integrate software development using Git, Maven, Jenkins. Developed processes, tools, automation for Jenkins based software for build system and delivering SW Builds. Managed build results in Jenkins and deployed using workflows. Delivered specific versions of various components of an application into target environments. Maintain and track inventory using Jenkins and set alerts when teh servers are full and needed attention. Setup and maintained base CentOS EC2 AMIs which was used to create new hosts. Responsible to maintain Maven Build Scripts and tweak if changes in teh requirements. Responsible for Deployment Dry Run Plans and Execution of teh Dry Run on every release for multiple applications. Worked at optimizing volumes and AWS EC2 instances and created multiple VPC instances. Worked with IAM to create new accounts, roles and groups and give permissions. Created alarms and notifications for AWS EC2 instances using CloudWatch. Worked on configuring S3 versioning and lifecycle policies to and backup files and archive files in glacier. Environment: Git, Jenkins, Chef, Maven, CentOS, Linux, AWS, CloudFormation Templates, RDS, CloudWatch, VPC, IAM. Build / Release Engineer Confidential Responsibilities: Creating builds using power Shell Scripts, Maven scripts manually and automated. Troubleshooting Deployment and installation issues. Automated teh Build Process using Jenkins. Handling complete Build and Release process including code, documentation and supporting testing team along with teh server Administration. Git administration like give access for branches and Git repositories. Installing packages for Tomcat 7, and Apache 2.4 by generating modules and writing manifests on Ubuntu 14.04 for around 400 instances. Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution. Developed build and Deployment scripts using MAVEN as a build tool in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. Developed UNIX Scripts for manual Deployment of teh code to teh different environments. Worked on Docker platform to develop, ship, and run applications. Deployed teh Java applications into web application servers. Maintained necessary back-up of teh important files and documented Linuxscripts for future reference. Implemented SVN branching and merging operations for Java Source Code. Environment: Git, Maven, Jenkins, Linux, Shell, Puppet, Docker, Java, CI/ CD, SVN. Linux/Unix Administrator Confidential Responsibilities: Redefined processes and implemented tools for software builds, patch creation, source control and release tracking and reporting on UNIX platform. Installation, Administration and maintenance of Linux/Windows operating systems in teh computer lab. Identify, troubleshoot, and resolve problems with teh OS build failures. Design, build, and maintain production servers and RAID storage system. Performance Management & Tuning of Linux Kernel. Installation and administration of peripherals. Software installation and maintenance. Security, Users and Groups administration. Networking service, performance, and resource monitoring. Daily backup and restore operations. Developed automated processes that run daily to check disk usage and perform cleanup of file systems on Linux environments using Shell scripting and also for performing automated tasks and system upgrades. Other standard system administration tasks performed, such as system monitoring, performance usage, network support, and user support. Environment: Centos, Red Hat Linux servers, Windows servers, Shell scripting, TCP/IP, DNS, HTTP, DHCP, RAID. 