SUMMARY Over 8 Years of IT industry comprising of Build management, Software configuration, design, Development and Cloud Implementation. Cognitive about designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS) Highly skilled in deployment, data security and troubleshooting of the applications usingAWSservices. Experienced in implementing OrganizationDevOpsstrategy in various operating environments of Linux and windows servers along with cloud strategies of Amazon Web Services. Expertise in Building, Automating, Deploying, and Release of Code inAWSCloud platform usingAWSresources such as EC2, VPC, IAM, S3, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud FormationAWSConfig, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, and Route53. Highly experienced in Terraform key features such as Infrastructure as a Code, Execution Plans, Resource Graphs, Change Automation, and package management tools like Packer for the provisioning of instances onAWS. Experience in using DSLs/frameworks for managing Infrastructure as code using CloudFormation, Terraform, Ansible. Experience in infrastructure programming using languages like Python. Using Terraform customized infrastructure in AWS by configuring various AWS resources. Experience in Branching, Merging, Tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like Subversion (SVN), GIT (GitHub, GitLab). Strong working experience on Resources collections of Puppet like Classes, Definitions of manifest files to gather the resources assign them to collection and have the collection applied to the agent nodes. Used Ansible as a powerful tool for creating infrastructure and deployed on servers. Experience in creating inventory, job templates and scheduling jobs using Ansible Tower and expertise in writing Ansible Playbooks. Ability to build deployment, build scripts and automated solutions using scripting languages such as Shell & Bash scripting. Configuring, automating and maintaining build and deployment CI/CD tools Jenkins, Docker, Nexus and JIRA for Multi - Environment (Local/POC/NON-PROD/PROD) with high degree of standardization for both infrastructure and application stack automation inAWScloud platform. Experience on working with Docker containers infrastructure and Continuous Integration for building and deploying Docker containers. Creating Docker images from scratch and customizing as per the requirement, along with that working on creating directory structure and removing Docker images. Maintained and developed Docker images for a tech stack including Apache and several in house written Java services running inAWSon Kubernetes. Experience is using Tomcat, JBOSS, Web logic and WebSphere Application servers for deployment. Expertise in Repository Management tools Artifactory, Nexus. Implementation and Automation of SonarQube to measure code standard compliance, code duplication, and unit test results. Ability to build deployment, build scripts and automated solutions using scripting languages such as Shell & Bash scripting. Expertise in Installing and Managing LDAP, NFS, DHCP, SAMBA, DNS etc. Knowledge of using Routed Protocols like FTP, SSH, HTTP, HTTPS and Direct connect. Expertise in Installation, Support, Configuration with different flavors of LINUX RHEL, CentOS, Oracle Linux (OEL), Debian, and Ubuntu. Installed and configured Red Hat LINUX Kickstart and Solaris jumpstart Servers. Experience in System Administration which includes Installation, Configuration and Upgradation of Linux (Red Hat and Oracle) Excellent communication, inter-personnel and presentation skills, quick learner and self-organized person. Exceptional communicator, analytical approach with demonstrated talent for identifying, scrutinizing, improving, and streamlining complex work processes. TECHNICAL SKILLS Version Control Systems:  Git, Subversion. Automation Build Tools:  Docker, Jenkins, ANT, Maven. Configuration Management:  Ansible, Cloud Formation, Puppet. Logging & Monitoring:  Nagios, Syslog, Dynatrace, Cloud Watch. Cloud Services:  AWS, OpenStack. Application Servers:  JBOSS, Tomcat, Nginx, WebLogic, WebSphere Programming Languages:  BASH, Perl, Python, Java, Java Script, JQuery. Operating Systems:  RHEL 5/6/7, Solaris Release  2.10/2.9/2.8/2.7 , IBM-AIX 5.X, Windows 98, Windows 2000, Windows 2008 and NT PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Bowie, MD Sr AWS Devops Engineer Responsibilities: Design, develop, and provision cloud infrastructure on AWS platform. Maintaining AWS cloud infrastructure in optimal configuration from both technical and budgetary perspectives. Effective use of CloudWatch to monitor EC2 performance and setup trigger-based alerts. Referencing EC2 security groups to troubleshoot connectivity issues between EC2 instances and other Customer and AWS resources. Creating EC2 instances end-to-end with EBS, VPC, security groups, and tags. Expertise with AWS RDS and Aurora offerings such as instance: Deployment, Encryption, Configuration, Management Provision and configure AWS storage services Recognize automation opportunities and choose the appropriate scripting language Perform security management tasks to include managing encryption keys and troubleshooting AWS security groups. Create/Troubleshoot Ansible playbooks. Design, develop, and provision cloud infrastructure on AWS platform. Manage CI/CD pipeline supporting workflows for application deployments Collaborate with network team to template and codify best practices Demonstrable experience designing and implementing complex applications and distributed systems into public cloud infrastructure AWS. Experience and solid understanding of complex, multi-region, highly available state-less and state-full deployments Worked on container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes. Creation Cloud/Infrastructure automation as needed (Ansible) Solid understanding of security and compliance frameworks, standards and implementation in public cloud environments Experience and solid understanding of infrastructure technologies such as network, compute, and storage Experience in using DSLs/frameworks for managing infrastructure as code like (or like) CloudFormation, Terraform, Ansible. Experience in infrastructure programming using languages like Python, Ruby, Go Hands on experience using continuous integration/delivery tools like (or like) git, Jenkins, Concourse. Environment: AWS Cloud Automation Engineer, Terraform, CloudFormation, Docker, Python, CI/CD, Jenkins, Artifactory, Ansible, DevOps, Agile, Jira Confidential, Dearborn, MI AWS Devops Engineer Responsibilities: Deployed and managed many servers utilizing both traditional and cloud-oriented providers (AWS) with the Chef Platform and written cookbooks for various DB configurations to modularize & optimize project configuration. Generated S3 buckets and managed policies for S3 buckets and utilized S3 Buckets and Glacier for storage, backup and archived in AWS and worked on setting up and maintenance of Auto-Scaling AWS stacks. Configured Jenkins for doing the build in all the non-production and production environments. Developing build using MAVEN as build tool and using Jenkins to kick off the builds to move from one environment to other environments. Developed and wrote Python for setting up baselines, branching, merging, and automation processes across the environments using GIT onLinuxplatforms. Experience in managing knowledge objects like dashboard workflow actions using Splunk Power design. Proficient with Splunk architecture and various components (indexer, forwarder: search head, deployment server), Heavy and Universal forwarder, License model. Worked on GIT which includes developing branches, staging branches, master, push, pull requests and code reviews are performed. Configured Git with Jenkins and schedule jobs using POLL SCM option and integrated to automate the code checkout process and Continually build as the check-in's come from the developer. Extensive experience as Cloud Solutions Architect with AWS (AWS Cloud Formation, AWS EC2, S3, VPC, etc.) Strong knowledge of AWS Lambda, Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS), Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS), and Amazon Simple Workflow Service (Amazon SWF) Strong knowledge with Web Services, API Gateways and application integration development and design Knowledge of agile software development practices and release management Advanced knowledge of cloud technologies and cloud infrastructure, including networking, VPCs, VGWs, VPNs, DNS. AWS preferred. Advanced knowledge of industry standard DevOps tools (CI/CD, Git, scripting, Gradle, Maven, Chef, git, Ansible, Docker, Kubernetes, etc.). Environment: RedHat AWS, Ansible, Ansible, Docker, Docker swarm, Puppet, Jenkins, Maven, Nexus, Python script, Java script, Unix Shell Script, GIT, ELK, Agile, Nagios, JFrog, Splunk, Jira,Linux, VMWare. Confidential Build/Release Engineer Responsibilities: Performed package management using RPM, YUM, Apt-get and dpkg for maintaining stability and security of the servers. Installed and Configure Ansible server, managed SSH keys for client nodes and downloaded roles from Ansible galaxy and automated several day-to-day tasks. Hosted several Java (J2EE) based applications on multiple Web & App servers (Nginx, Apache, Tomcat) which are deployed using customized Ansible playbooks. Worked as a Jenkins admin, integrated Jenkins with Git, Ant, Maven & Nexus for Continuous Integration and deployment of projects on various environments. Expertise in integrating Jenkins with various tools like Maven (Build tool), Git (Repository), SonarQube (code verification), Nexus (Artifactory) and implementing CI/CD automation for creating Jenkins pipelines programmatically architecting Jenkins Clusters. Worked on ANT for building of deployable artifacts such as war & jar from source code and pushing the built artifacts to Nexus Repository. Installed, Configured, Managed Monitoring Tools such as Splunk for Resource Network Monitoring/Log Trace Monitoring. Configured Git with Jenkins and schedule jobs using POLL SCM option and integrated to automate the code checkout process. Developed Configuration Management GIT from scratch and prepared documentation accordingly. Developed scripts using Shell/Python for automating Configuration Management policies and practices. Worked with MongoDB to grant access to data and commands through role-based authorization and provide built-in roles Closely monitoring all aspects of administration tasks such as day to day monitoring and maintenance, Installs, Configuration, Clustering, Load balancing, deploying applications, Troubleshooting and maintenance of WebLogic server and UNIX production support activities that are performed by the team. Developed complex JIRA project workflows, field configurations, screen schemes, permission schemes and notification schemes. Used Gradle and written python scripts to automate the Build and deployment process. Environment: RedHat Linux, Shell scripting, Perl Scripting, Jira, Subversion, GIT, Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Java, PHP. Confidential Linux Systems Engineer Responsibilities: Robust experience as a Linux Systems Administrator in a large network environment. Strong administration and troubleshooting skills on Linux/Unix, Windows and LAN. Very confident with DHCP, NFS, DNS, LAMP stacking and Samba on Linux. Setting up automounts for home directories in different domains, ensuring backup of all the servers and clients using VERITAS netback up software. Monitor the availability and health of the infrastructure and applications across multiple data centers. (Systems resources: disk space, memory, CPU load) Ensure the streamlined operation of the IT infrastructure in alignment with the business objectives of the organization. Applying OS patches and upgrading on a regular basis. Configuring/adding new services as necessary. Experience installing, upgrading and configuring RedHatLinux4.x, 5.x, 6.x using Kickstart and Interactive Installations. Responsible for creating and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in Solaris, CentOS and RedhatLinux. BuildLinuxVirtual Machines using VMware Virtual Center. Install, upgrade and manage packages via RPM and YUM package management• Install Firmware Upgrades, kernel patches,systemsconfiguration, performance tuning on Unix/Linuxsystems. Install, configure and support Apache onLinuxservers. Manage patch configuration, version control, service pack and review connectivity issues regarding security problems. Responsible for creating templates and deploying VM's in VMware environment. Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, NFS, DNS, SNMP agents, DHCP and Proxy. Created Shell scripts and worked on existing scripts. Automating the installs using Kickstart and building post install scripts using Shell scripting in RHEL Servers. Environment: SUN Servers, RedHat Linux 4/5/6, Solaris 8/9/10, Veritas NetBackup, Veritas Volume Manager, Samba, NFS, LVM, Linux, Shell Scripting. 