SUMMARY 9+ years of experience in system administration and Devops, for various operating systems such as Red hat Linux (4.x, 5.x, 6.x, 7.x), CentOS (4.x, 5.x, 6.x), VMware ESX/ESXi 4.x, 5.x, 6.x) and Windows (2003, 2008 R2, 2012) and Devops Automation. Installation of patches, Security fixes, packages on Linuxand AIX, and Windows  2003/2008/2012 R2 Servers on both Physical and Virtual Environments. Hands on experience on Automation/Build tools like Chef, Ansible, Jenkins, Ant and Maven. Proficiency in VMWare. Installation and monitoring Virtual environments with ESX Servers and Virtual Center. Experience in Server build usingJumpstart, Ignite and KickstartProcess on multiple servers. Deployment and System build configuration using Puppet. Experience in configuring and recovery procedures for Master and Client Backup Servers UsingVeritas Net Backup. Expert in Red Hat Linux V 5, 6 & 7 of heavy experience in install / rebuild servers. Understanding the business requirements, capacity planning, Vendor management, team co  - ordination, business migration. Patching and Packages rollouts.Experience in using Version Control Tools like GIT and SVN. Experience in Configuring & Administering SAN Devices and other storage solutions like Veritas DMP. Experience inLogical Volume Managerfor creation of Volume groups / Logical Volumes and File systems in UNIX environment.Experience in administering and configuring Nexus Repository Manager for Maven builds. Installation Configuration and Administration of Veritas Volume Manager, Red Hat Cluster Server, Veritas Cluster Server using EXT3, EXT4, GFS, ZFS, XFS. Performed numerous server migrations on both Unix/Linux servers. Migrations include moving all clients and their data, configuration settings, testing and verifying everything is correct with zero downtime. Knowledge about Microsoft Azure in creating cloud environment and managing the application servers across Microsoft managed global data centers. Experience in handling VERITAS Cluster Server (VCS) during Fault Tolerance. Experience in UNIX with Perl, Python, and Ruby and Bash shell scripts. Responsible for Installing of OS on Several hundred Servers using Ansible. Expertise in Installing, administering, troubleshooting NFS, DNS, DHCP, NIS, LDAP Mail Server, Send Mail and Samba Server.Experience in configuring LAMP stack. Experience in using various network protocols like SSH, SCP, SFTP, HTTP, UDP, POP, FTP, TCP/IP and SMTP. In-depth understanding of the principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations. Worked on Group/User administration, Startup & Shutdown Scripts, Crontabs, File System Maintenance, Backup Scripts and Automation. Expertise in configuring servers from Kickstart and Jumpstart Installation Methods. Experience in using various transport, application and internet protocol layers, DHCP, DNS FTP, HTTP, IMAP, POP3, RPC, SMTP, SOAP, SSH, Telnet, TLS/SSL, TCP/IP, IP (IPv4). Installed, configured and supported WebSphere Application Server, IBM HTTP/ Apache Web Servers inLinuxenvironments. Working Knowledge of Samba Servers. Worked extensively on creating volumes using different RAID levels using LVM inLinux. Experience in configuring, monitoring and troubleshooting various file systems like Ext 4, 3, 2. Experience in creating, installing, updating packages in Red HatLinuxservers using RPM’s and YUM repositories. Used ILO/iDRAC/ Confidential UCS Manager for remote access of servers and managing the hardware's. Worked extensively on Red HatLinuxDNS servers from installing BIND package, updating the BIND database and troubleshooting the problems. Hands on experience in installing, configuring and supporting web servers like APACHE, TOMCAT, IIS, iPlanet over DMZ (Demilitarized Zone) in order to enhance the security of the server access. Good knowledge in Operating system level configuration of SAN using Netapp, EMC, 3PAR and Hitachi technologies and also worked with NAS and SAN. Installation, Configuration and Administration of VERITAS Volume Manager (VxFS/VxVM/VCS) and LVM. Knowledge of networking (TCP/IP, Ethernet), FTP, SFTP, SUDO, NFS, NIS, DNS, DHCP and RAID levels. Experience in periodic checking of the open ports / services on the servers using tools like nmap and ISS. Administered shell interfaces, groups/user accounts, login scripts, and kernel patches & updates. Hands on experience in RHELPerformance Monitoring tools using vmstat, iostat, prstat, mpstat, sar, top, Nagios, nmon and Zabbix. Designed, Installed and ConfiguredVMwareESX/ESXi within vSphere 4/5/6 andVMwareView 4.5, 4.6 environments, Consolidated Backup, load balancing, DRS, HA, FT, DPM, vMotion andVMwareData Recovery, VCloud directory &VMwareSite Recovery Manager (SRM) 4.0/4.5. Experience in maintainingVMwareESX / ESXi environment, VCloud Suite, Microsoft Windows Server, EMC Storage Arrays, Citrix Xen app, Xen Desktop, Data Center management and day-to-day operations with Skill and Efficiency. Built, Configured and Deployed VMs and Templates. Migrated Physical-to-Virtual (P2V) and Virtual-to-Virtual (V2V) Migratio.n Installed Patches and Host Profiles on ESXi hosts and virtual machines usingVMwareUpdate Manager. Experience with vBlock Overview, EMC, 3 Par and SAN storage administration. Good communication skills, working without supervision, working in team environment. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating System:  RHEL 4.x, 5.x, 6.x, 7.x; CentOS 5.x, 6.x, Esx4.0/Esxi  4.1/5/5.1/5.5/6.0 , Windows /2003/2008R/2012 Servers Shell Scripting:  Bash, Korn, Python. Backup and Recovery tools:  Dump, Restore, Tar, CPIO, Rsync, Kernel re-compilation & Patches, updates. Hardware:  DELL (PowerEdge), HP (ProLiant G7 & G8), Dell Power Edge Servers, Confidential UCS, Nexus 2k/3k/5k, F5's, Confidential MDS. Virtualization:  VMware ESX Server and vSphere, vMotion. Virtualization Technologies VI3,VMware vSphere 4.0/4.1/5.0, VMware ESX 2.5/3.0/3.5, VMware ESXi 4.0/4.1/5.0,5.1,5.5.6.0,6.5 VMware vCenter, vSphere Client, VMware VDI, VMware ThinApp, View 4.6/5.0, Microsoft Hyper-V, VMware Update Manager, Platespin migrator, Quest vConvertor, HA, vMotion. Web, Application and Mail Servers:  WebLogic 10.x/9.x/8.x, WebSphere, Apache HTTP/Tomcat/Jboss Server Installation & Configuration; Compiling with Modules; Virtual Hosting; SSL, Load balancing & Clusters,VMwareESX and ESXi, Oracle VirtualBox and Microsoft Virtual PC. Network Protocols:  DHCP, DNS, SNMP, SMTP, Ethernet, NFS. Databases:  Oracle 8/9i/10, 11G, DB2 and MySQL. Open Source Tools & Other Exposure:  Nagios, Puppet, Ansible, Shell Scripting, OS Administration basics. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Summit, New Jersey Sr. System Administrator (Linux, Devops, VMware) Responsibilities: Extensive experience on Implementations, troubleshooting, and proactively monitored Red Hat systems for the Enterprise. Hands on experience on installation and configuration: Linux, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4/5/6, SLES, CentOS, Ubuntu. Installation of Patches on the servers running different applications and validating that the server is fully patched with all firmware and OS critical updates. Created users, manage user permissions, maintain User & File system quota on Linux servers. Worked on Failover clustered servers for RED HAT clusters. Linux container and has the AMI baked in converted our staging and production environment from a handful AMI's to a single bare metal host running Docker. Implemented day-to-day tasks in RedHat Linux that include upgrading rpms, kernel, HBA driver, configuring SAN Disks, multi-pathing and LVM file system. Created users, manage user permissions, maintain User & File System quota on Redhat Linux, Linux kernel, memory upgrades and swaps area and performed Red hat Linux Kickstart installations Manage systems using remote consoles like ILO for HP Hardware and HMC for IBM P-Series Setup network printers and installed client/server applications. Defined/setup network protocols, Network File Services (NFS), and Network Information Services (NIS) in Linux systems. Network trouble shooting using 'ndd', 'traceroute', 'netstat', 'ifconfig' and 'snoop' etc Installation and configuration of different Splunk Components like Indexers, Search Heads, and Forwarders. Implemented monitoring solutions and developed app/dashboards for Apache Web Server Analytics, BIG-IP, load balancer, Site minder, Ping, SM Login, and LDAP in Splunk. Created reproducible builds of the Kubernetes applications, managed Kubernetes manifest files and Managed releases of Helm packages. Responsible for maintaining current software and hardware patch updates for all servers. Monitor Hardware console for any hardware issues using NAGIOS. Tuning of theLinuxOS to increase performance as well as installation of new patches as needed, developed shell scripts to automate daily housekeeping tasks such as file transfers, Troubleshooting all problems with performance, upgrades and file transfers. Responsible for Applying patches on all servers using centralized Puppet master server. Responsible for documenting and maintaining complete and accurate information for all active and decommissioned servers. Administrated JIRA, and Maintained documentation using Confluence. Performed application server builds in EC2 environment and monitoring them using cloud watch. Worked with Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery using tools such as Jenkins. Administered and Engineered Jenkins for managing weekly Build, Test and Deploy chain, GIT with Dev/Test/Prod Branching Model for weekly releases. Experience in Continuous integration tools like Jenkins. Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins. Working with Puppet as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manage changes. Responsible for automating and improving infrastructure, using Puppet for configuration. Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using Puppet. Documented, performed and validated test cases based on client requirements. Created featured, develop, release branches in STASH (GIT) for different applications to support releases and CI builds. Allocate IP addresses to the users and configure their systems according to the lab requirements. Setup an SCM environment to execute a continuous integration builds environment and making the environment agile for the developers. Was managing user accounts for the team access for Redhat Satellite Server. Also created RPM packages using RPMBUILD, verifying the new build packages and distributing the package. Updated Maven scripts to use Artifactory repo instead of local repositories. Installation of patches and packages. Installation and configuration of Apache, WebSphere. Disk and File system management through LVM (HP-UX, AIX,Linux Experience with configuring, managing Virtual disks, Disk Mirrors and RAID 0-5. Provided functional and technical support, troubleshooting and diagnosing hardware and software problems, including desktop, laptop, WAN, LAN. Worked on AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) components, including user, groups, roles, policies and password policies and provide the same to end user.Documented, performed and validated test cases based on client requirements. Created featured, develop, release branches in STASH (GIT) for different applications to support releases and CI builds. Allocate IP addresses to the users and configure their systems according to the lab requirements. Setup an SCM environment to execute a continuous integration builds environment and making the environment agile for the developers. Was managing user accounts for the team access for Redhat Satellite Server. Also created RPM packages using RPMBUILD, verifying the new build packages and distributing the package. Confidential, New York, New York Sr. System Administrator (Linux, Devops, VMware) Responsibilities: Installation and configuration of Red Hat Enterprise Linux servers using kickstart unattended installation in addition to PXE Boot, configuring of new servers and workstations using kickstart and autostart. Developed shell scripts for collection and summarize server information for server monitoring and other housekeeping tasks such as file transfers. Involved in Installing and configuring GIT distributed version control tool, written pre-commit, post-commit, post-receive hooks in GIT and responsible for merging, tagging and conflict resolution in GIT. Expansion of existing file systems on remote servers using NFS Server & client configurations, performed disk configurations and crash recovery.Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing a complete automation solution. Established network security using Linux Firewall and troubleshoot problems relating to boot loaders (GRUB, LILO Used Puppet as configuration management tools, to automate tasks, deploy critical applications, & manage change. Responsible for Administering Nexus server which includes install, upgrade, maintenance of repositories, performance tuning, troubleshooting issues and maintenance. Responsible for maintaining current software and hardware patch updates for all servers. Monitor Hardware console for any hardware issues using NAGIOS. Tuning of the Linux OS to increase performance as well as installation of new patches as needed, developed shell scripts to automate daily housekeeping tasks such as file transfers, Troubleshooting all problems with performance, upgrades and file transfers.Responsible for Applying patches on all servers using centralized Puppet master server. Puppet deployments of IPC cloud-based IAAS platforms. Created Puppet manifests, profiles and roles module to automate system operations. Developed/managed Puppet manifest for automated deployment to various servers. Supporting complex Atlassian environments and have experience with integrating Atlassian tools with other internal & external systems. Experience with using REST services provided by Atlassian. Experience with integration of Jira with third-party systems such as Service Now. Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects. Responsible for documenting and maintaining complete and accurate information for all active and decommissioned servers. Administrated JIRA, and Maintained documentation using Confluence. Worked on storage lifecycle policies to back the data from AWS S3 to AWS Glacier. Updating kernel & security patches in Amazon linux environment, handling out of memory issues in Linux kernels during rebalance in Kafka cluster. Implemented Extract, Transform and Load (ETL) on Kafka and loaded into MySQL systems. Manage run-time configuration, processes, scaling, backup and recovery, monitoring, and performance tuning for production MongoDB instances. Responsible for planning and executing upgrades to Atlassian systems. Implementation of MongoDB security mechanism with various Authentications. Configuring the Docker containers and creating Docker files for various applications. Automated the weekly deployments utilizing CI tool Jenkins. Updated Maven scripts to use Artifactory repo instead of local repositories. Document RIS/WDS, Linux Kickstart, and Unix Jumpstart procedures for team wiki. Environment: Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.x/6.x,7.x, CentOS 6.x, NFS Server, BASH Shell Script, VMware, Disk suite, GRUB, LILO, GIT, Maven, Jenkins, CHEF, Puppet, Docker, NAGIOS, Jira, Confluence.Application Deployments & Environment configuration using Chef, Puppet. Extensive experience in setting up Chef Workstation, Server and Clients. Created and Maintained Chef Recipes and cookbooks to simplify and expedite deployment of applications and mitigate user error. Physical Blade and VMware ESXi Virtual Environment. End to End Client Server Installation & Customization of Jenkins for to atomize the build/deployment process for respective application/project. Installation and Configuration of Veritas Volume Manager, Logical Volume Manager and Red Hat Cluster. Managed and optimized Continuous Delivery tools like Jenkins. Implementation of RAID techniques and the creation of Disk groups and volumes, plex using Veritas Volume manager. Troubleshooting problems with hardware and operating systems on multiple platforms working with multiple vendors to repair.Installation of software on multiple platforms using Ansible. Extensive use of Logical Volume Manager (LVM), creating Volume Groups, Logical volumes and disk mirroring in Red Hat Linux, HP-UX and AIX.Day to day trouble shooting for end users on UNIX/LINUX. Configured NFS and Open LDAP services in Red Hat Linux and Solaris systems. Experience in Setting up and configuring Install Server, Configuration Server and Boot Server for Kickstart process. Performed setting up Configuration Server and Boot Server for Jumpstart process. Installed and configured Red Hat Linux using Satellite Server. Implemented and organized a rollout project which involves upgrade of servers using Red Hat Satellite Server. Managing GIT version control system in creating branches, tags, merge, resolving conflicts. UCS and VMware installation/configuration/troubleshoot. Troubleshooting and resolving failures in the network and maintaining the security posture of the network. Created and updated Puppet manifests and modules, files, and packages stored in the GIT repository. Install / monitoring / automation via Puppet / Ansible on CentOS 6, 7 Created Nagios monitoring infrastructure, various Nagios plugin scripts Perl & python based for checking health of App Servers and for monitoring load. Worked on creating Perl scripts for Startup, Shutdown of Servers, Server Groups, monitoring JVM parameters. Responsible for Log management through Splunk. Hands on Experience working with private and public cloud platforms (e.g. OpenStack, OpenShift, AWS, etc) Hands on experience with Scripting language on BASH. Installed and verified that all AIX/Linux patches or updates are applied to the servers. Define/setup network protocols, Network File Services (NFS), and Network Information Services (NIS) inLinuxEnvironments. Installed and configured VxVM, VxFS and VCS onLinuxServers. Confidential, Akron, Ohio Sr. System Administrator (Linux, Devops, VMware) Responsibilities: Experience installing and Configuring RHEL 5.x,6.x, CentOS 5.x, 6.x Installed and configured several Red Hat Enterprise Linux in both Physical Blade utilizing Kickstart/PXE/Red Hat Satellite server and VMWare EXSi 5.0 virtual environment Managed several hundred UNIX servers running RHEL on HP and Dell hardware including blade centers. Supported Redhat servers in Production and Development environments. Install and Configure Linux with Apache, Oracle 8i and PHP (LAMP Project). Configure multipath and Linux Device Mapper to configure multipath'ed LUN's from EMC VMX and NetApp solutions Install and configure DHCP, DNS (BIND, MS), web (Apache, IIS), mail (SMTP, IMAP, POP3), and file servers in Linux environment. Worked on Virtualizing Redhat servers using vSphere 4.1/5.0 and managed ESX servers using vCenter and also worked with ESX Cluster and vMotion. Installed and Configured Redhat Linux using Kickstart and booting from SAN. Configuration and administration of Fiber Card Adapter's and handling of SAN (SAN arrays, Netapp, EMC) Perform Deployment of Release to various QA & UAT in Linux environments. Optimized volumes and EC2 instances. Created multi AZ VPC instances Configured S3 versioning and lifecycle policies to and backup files and archive files in Glacier I have done basic bash scripting with the AWS cli. Configured Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) with EC2 Autoscalling groups. Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using CloudWatch. Troubleshooter of integration Atlassian toolsManaged users, workflow, groups and projects in JIRA Experience with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka. Implemented Kafka Customer with Spark-streaming and Spark SQL using Scala. Developed shell scripts for collection and summarize server information for server monitoring and other housekeeping tasks such as file transfers.Migrated applications to the AWS cloud Azure Automation (cloud and on-premises) solution development for Microsoft POC engagements Performed Mechanization Puppet and Chef. Configure Backup and Recovery Methods for MongoDB Configured Role-Based Access Control with custom roles and privileges. Running MongoDB with secure configuration options. Scripting in multiple languages on UNIX, LINUX and Windows - Batch, Shell and Python script etc. Troubleshoot the build issue during the Jenkins build process. Manage and Configure Various Atlassian Tools like JIRA, Green hopper, Confluence, for Agile development in the organization Provide End to End Linux Administration including installation, configuration, upgrades, and maintenance and troubleshooting of Linux systems. Day-to-day, hands on work building, patching, and maintaining Linux systems in a highly virtualized (VMware) environment. Respond to all Linux systems problems and resolving them on a timely basis. Manage systems routine scheduling jobs and enabling cron jobs. Monitor systems performance on all servers (Virtual memory, Disk and CPU utilization). Install, configure and support of Apache on Linux production servers. Implement password aging on Red Hat and Centos servers. Manage Red Hat Storage using Linux logical Volume Manager. Creating and Managing resource pools for Virtual Machines. Monitoring and managing performance of ESX servers and Virtual Machines using Virtual centre server for HA, DRS and Vmotion. Work on Migration concepts like Vmotion and cold migration. Creation & Troubleshooting of Virtual Network. Troubleshooting ESX & Virtual Machines Creation of templates from VMs and Creation of VMs from templates. Performance monitoring and tuning for ESX Servers, Virtual Center Server and VMs. Confidential, Conway, AR Sr. System Administrator (Linux, AIX, VMware) Responsibilities: Installation, Administration and Maintenance of Red Hat Enterprise, CentOS on VMs and physical servers. Deploy and Configure Red Hat Satellite Server 5.4, including creating maintaining any customized kickstart configuration channels to deploy RHEL. Responsible for Administration, Installation, Upgrading, Migration, Configuration, Troubleshooting, Security, Backup, Disaster Recovery, Performance monitoring and Fine-tuning of UNIX systems on different OS levels using Nagios, Tivoli and Zabbix monitoring tools. Extensive use of LVM, creating Volume Groups, Logical volumes, and disk mirroring, Fix the Problem with the partially mirrored Logical volumes. Maintenance level upgrades and software administration RPM installation on Linux. Regular disk management, partitioning according to the requirements, creating new file systems or increasing existing ones, managing file systems and adding virtual swap space. Perform User Account management, data backups, and user’s logon support. Implemented, configured and deployed new patches, upgrades, bug fixes on both physical and virtual Red Hat Linux servers using satellite server and YUM server. Installed and configured several hundred Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x/5.x, Windows server 03/08 R2 in both physical Blade and VMware ESXi 5/6 Virtual Environment. the logical partition. Responsible for updating the micro-codes of the adapters on the existing servers. Performing O/S and kernel upgrades onLinuxservers. Experience with configuring firewalls usingLinux. Familiar with configuring advanced features such as NAT, Port Redirection, and Logging.Knowledge on SaaS, PaaS and IaaS concepts of cloud computing architecture. Implementation of AWS (IaaS) and Open stack.Provisioned EC2 instances on AWS using Ansible playbook and Unix environment. Developed Dev/Test/Prod environments of different applications on AWS by provisioning EC2 instances using Ansible playbooks. Created the AWS VPC network and configured the Security Groups and Elastic IP's accordingly. Worked on Continuous Integration Tools Like Jenkins and Openstack Technology Mounted/un-mounted new file systems, mounted file systems on remote servers using NFS Server & client configurations, performed disk configurations and crash recovery. Maintained user account management, configured servers to register with Red Hat Network (RHN) Satellite Server, monitored servers - workload assessment, service console monitoring. Installation, configuration and management of Apache 2.24 and Tomcat 6/7 servers. Supported several Servers in Dev, QA, Staging and Production environments plus primary support to all kind of issues for Red hat 5.x & 6.x Linux and VMware. Creation and Maintenance of User Accounts file systems and successfully created logins IDs on large number of servers. Install/configure/maintain theLinuxservers, NIS, DNS, NFS, Mailing List, Sendmail, apache, ftp, sshd. Performed TCP/IP, DNS and DHCP administration. Monitor Disk space and space as needed in LVM. Installing and upgrading patches and packages on RHEL 5.x, 6.2 and 6.5 servers using RPM, YUM and third party software applications. Limiting user account privileges using SUDOERS. Expertise in using build tools like MAVEN and ANT for the building of deployable Artifacts such as War & Ear from Source Code Installation of Web sphere application and mange users and service account with no password option in sudoers file to manage WebSphere application. Installation of Database servers and users management such as Oracle, MYSQL, SQL Server. Installation and configuration of Web /Application Server Apache-Tomcat. Monitoring and install or updates patch software’s, firmware, and security patches for all applications in installed infrastructure via Red hat network. Management of Puppet, Ansible automation do automate day to day tasks. Configure and setupLinuxserver samba protocol. Responsible for system configuration and installation of software applications, operating system upgrades. Installation and configuration of SAMBA x server for interface betweenLinuxservers and Windows servers to share files. Worked on daily task on Red HatLinuxthat included upgrading rpms, kernel, HBA driver, configuring SAN Disks(3Par, EMC VMAX), multipathing and LVM file system. Migrated datacenters and converted physical servers to virtual servers (P2V) usingVMwareConvertor. Created and managed resource pools for Virtual Machines. Monitoring and managing performance of ESXi servers and Virtual Machines using Virtual center server for HA, DRS. Involved in live migration of Virtual Machines and Virtual machines files using the VMotion and Storage VMotion. Handled theVMwaresolutions to support multiple storage connectivity options such as FC-SAN, iSCSI, NFS (NAS) and internal storage. Creation & Troubleshooting of both the switches, vswitch and distributed vswitch. Follows change management process. Confidential, Fishers, IN System Administrator (Linux/VMware) Responsibilities: Experience installing and Configuring RHEL 5.x, 6.x, CentOS 5.x, 6.x. IBM AIX 5.3/6.1, VMware Esxi5.0/5.1 Managed several hundred UNIX servers running RHEL on HP and Dell hardware including blade centers and IBM AIX on Power Series. Supported Redhat servers in Production and Development environments. Install and configure DHCP, DNS (BIND, MS), web (Apache, IIS), mail (SMTP, IMAP, POP3), and file servers in Linuxenvironment. Responsible for automating build and monitoring tasks across AWS and Rackspace using a variety of tools such as MongoDB, NginX, Jenkins, and JIRA.Deployment and implementation of Tivoli, SRM, BMC Patrol. Utilized Remedy for change management, incident tracking, and process documentation Installed and configured VxVM, VxFS and VCS onLinuxServers. Installation and configuration of Web Application servers like Apache, Tomcat and Weblogic. Worked on Virtualizing Redhat servers using vSphere 4.1/5.0 and managed ESX servers using vCenter and also worked with ESX Cluster and vMotion. Installed and Configured RedhatLinux usingKickstart and booting from SAN. Configuration and administration of Fiber card Adapter’s and handling of SAN (SAN arrays, Netapp, EMC VMAX, 3Par). Performed SAN Migration on RHEL servers. Worked with automation of daily tasks using ansible automation. Extensive Experience in Converting Existing Standard LPAR build in p5 systems with AIX Version 5.3 to VIOC (Virtualized Micro partitioning LPAR) with SAN Boot LUNS or Local Disk boot. Experience in writing scripts to automate jobs and debugging scripts. Experience in using protocols like NIS, NFS, SSH, SFTP & DNS. Installation and support of various applications like Weblogic server 10, Websphere 6.1, JBoss 4.x, Apache 2.x. Implemented day-to-day tasks in Red HatLinuxthat include upgrading rpms, kernel, HBA driver, configuring SAN Disks, multipathing and LVM file system.Used System Monitoring Tools such as Top, SAR, VMSTAT, IOSTAT, FREE, PS etc. Mirroring of root disks using Hardware Raid Controller on HP & Dell HW. Created volumes using storage such as Netapp, VMAX Array for Redhat servers. Worked on configuring Apache with LDAP authentication on web servers. Provide support to development team, setting up and configuring Apache-PHP, Tomcat, MySQL, Send-mail, and wide range of open source solutions. Involved in deploying the content cloud platform on Amazon AWS using EC2, S3, and EBS ImplementedAWSsolutions using S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, and Auto scaling groups Operated 50+ Amazon Linux instances for Cloud-based social media application with 100% Support for 3-tier Amazon Web Services cloud application including the following: Apache, Tomcat. Use Nagios/Zabbix monitoring for 24*7 server uptime, alerts, and troubleshoot issues as per SLA. Data migration at Host level using Red Hat LVM, Veritas Volume Manager. Automated routine jobs by developing Korn, Perl and Bash shell-scripts. Creating vSwitch’s, different type of port group’s like Service Console, VMKernel, Virtual Machine and assigning the VLAN no’s. Configured NIC Teaming for load balance & failover. Experience withVMwareupdate manager to install patches and updates on ESX/ESXi 4.0, 5.0 hosts and virtual machines. Familiar with backup and restore of Virtual Machine backup, snapshot, P2V-V2V conversation withVMwareconverter and Patch updating, monitoring/reporting, SSH and SNMP and notification of alerts. Creation and management of Virtual Machines and Templates. Creation of clusters for (HA) High Availability, (DRS) Distributed Resource Scheduling and vMotion. Administering rights for Users and Groups for Virtual Center access. Configured the Chef-Repo and setup multiple Chef Workstations. Hands on experience in updating / upgrading ESX servers, Virtual Center servers and windows virtual machines usingVMwareUpdate manager and manual upgrades. Trouble shooting issues related toVMwareESX host,VMwarevirtual center, HA, DRS,VMwareupdate manager Confidential, San Jose, CA System Administrator Responsibilities: Installation, configuration & administration of RHEL 3.x/4.x/5.1,5.2, CentOS 5.x/6.x. Responsible for determining hardware and compatibility requirements for installation of application software and different tools.,Installation of Oracle Patches and Troubleshooting, Creating and modifying application related objects. Creating profiles, users, roles and maintaining security. Configured File Systems, users and group for Oracle and Websphere. Configuration of Kernel parameters for Oracle Database. Developed Shell scripts (Korn/Bourne) for automating the batch jobs. Extensively used LVM, created VGs, LVs, and disk mirroring. Monitored file system space using simple shell scripts; resize file systems as and when required. Configured clustering by using Veritas Clustering. Setup and configured network TCP/IP on Red HatLINUX, CentOS including RPC connectivity for NFS. Created mount points for Server directories and mounted these directories on the Servers. Windows server 2003 / 2008, Linux and Sun Solaris. Creating virtual NIC’s for the respective VM’s and assigning the network connections to a particular port group in the Vswitch’s. Involved in Managing, Installing, and Supporting Windows 2003/2008 Servers, and VMware ESX Servers 4.0/4.1. Building ESXi 4.0/5.0 Hosts and maintain those ESXi servers through vSphere Taking care of capacity planning for new clusters, ESXi and VM storage issues. Configured HA, DRS clusters, FT for important VM’s. Analyzing and implementing OS patches and hot fixes as well as other OS configurations and updates using Blade Logic Patch Management tool.Used Confidential UCS 1.3for managing Confidential B200 M2 and B440 M2 Blade servers. Managing VM’s and ESX servers by using VIC, Putty and Web Access and installing the VMware Tools on the VM. Install, upgrade, delete, and query packages in system. Migrating virtual machine configuration files and virtual disks from one Datastore to another Datastore Customizing VM’s (Memory, hard disk, Nic). Analyzing log files, Resources utilizing monitoring. Coordinating with teams, creating users account, assigning rights, sharing permission and managing profiles. Upgraded and maintained software packages on servers using RHEL Satellite and Repository servers. Created VMware Virtual machines using vSphere and installed Red Hat Linux 5x/6 on the VMs and standalone Dell servers. VSphere upgrade project UpgradeVMwarefrom Version 5.5 to 6. Experience handling various bottlenecks inVMwareenvironment proficient in handling the performance issues in virtual environment.Configuring HA/DRS related advanced configuration settings perVMwareBest practices Confidential, Johns Creek, GA AIX/Linux/VMware System Admin Responsibilities: Responsible for Installation, Configuration Management, Maintenance and Systems Development of AIX Systems. Configured IBM P6 and P5 for production, staging and test environments. Provided remote technical support for the AIX software team. Responsible for determining hardware and compatibility requirements for installation of application software and different tools. Analyzed problems on RPC, security & directory services of DCE/DFS. Fixed bugs using IPtrace tools, core dump analysis tools and memory leak tools. Logical Volume Management (LVM) administration of AIX. Performance Management & Tuning of AIX UNIX Kernel. Installed, Configured and maintained Red HatLinux, CentOS and Windows Servers. Responsible for troubleshooting end user and application problems. Creating User accounts, Mail account, groups, printer etc. Monitoring system resources, logs, disk usage, scheduling backups and restore. Installed packages using YUM repositories and configured Disk Management using LVM. Administration/Configuration of Print Servers/Clients in the Network. Assigned local security policies on member servers and standalone servers using RDP. Manage and monitor Active Directory services and group policies. Worked elaborately on different windows environment which include Windows NT version 4.0, Work Station, Terminal, 2000 and 2003. Assigning folder permissions to the users by gathering approval from the group owners. Created objects like User Accounts, Computer Accounts, and Auto logon accounts. Worked closely with database administration staff to ensure optimal performance of databases and maintain development applications and databases. Installed and configuredVMwareESX 4.x and 5 and configuredVMwareVirtual Center Server, Installing Virtual center components and Managed Virtual center permissions. Health check onVMwareInfrastructure usingVMwareHealth check tool and custom scripts Confidential, Pleasanton, CA System Admin Responsibilities: Worked as Red Hat Enterprise Linux and AIX Systems Administrator and performed support role for applications on mission critical Enterprise Networks and Multi-server environments. Racked and configured IBM RS 6000, P5 520, 550, 570, 575, 590, 595 and 610 for production, staging and test environments. Installed, configured and supported the NIM Server and NIM Clients. Planned and documented the process and the New Servers Builds in the environment. Provided 24x7 System Administration support for Red Hat Linux 3.x, 4.x servers and resolved trouble tickets on shift rotation basis. Provide the support of building the server, patching, user administration tasks, deployment, software installation, performance tuning and troubleshooting and KVM. Monitoring system performance, tune-up kernel parameter, adding /removing /administering hosts, users, disks on DNS / NIS domain, Configuration of Hardware and Software RAID on Digital & Sun Servers Installation and configuration of Oracle 7.x/8.x Implemented NFS, DNS and NIS under SUN. Wrote bash shell scripts for getting information about various Linux servers Installed and Configured Send mail Utility on Sun UNIX Servers. Administering NFS Mounts. Troubleshooting Backup and Restore Problems Creation of LVMs on SAN using Linux utilities