SUMMARY Around 8+ years of experience in different Technologies with specialization in AWS, DevOps and System Administration. Experienced in creating, configuring and maintaining Infrastructure on AWS Cloud services including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), EC2, RDS, S3, Route53, SNS, Cloud Front, CloudWatch and IAM. Experienced in migrating servers from data center to Amazon Web Services cloud. Experienced in creating various dashboards, metrics, alarms and notifications for servers using AWS Cloud Watch, Grafana and Nagios. Experienced in creating complex IAM policies, Roles and user management for delegated access within AWS. Experienced in creating complex caching and routing policies with content delivery network (CDN) using Akamai/Cloud Front to improve the page speed and TTFB values. Hands - on experience with databases (MySQL, MSSQL) creating users, performing dump/restore and taking automated snapshots. Experience working with version control systems like Subversion, GIT and used Source code management tools GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket including command line applications. Hands-on experience in deployment, monitoring and provisioning applications on the Microsoft Azure cloud platform and OpenStack. Experience in integrating an application with Azure AD, Designed multi-site and network and configured Site to Site & Point to Site VPN between on-premises and Azure Networks. Strong experience in using Build Automation tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle and MS Build. Experience in tools like Hudson, Jenkins, Bamboo for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Experience in Jenkins/Maven package building and have hands on experience in development using Shell, Python, and Groovy scripting to automate processes. Experience in using DevOps release tools such as Puppet, Ansible, continuous Integration tools such as Jenkins for automating/Scheduling the build processes and worked on Jenkins along with Python scripts to automate routine jobs. Designed end to end automation of infrastructure and continuous delivery of the applications by integrating cloud formation scripts, Jenkins, AWS, CHEF cookbooks and Ansible playbooks and recipes Design and developing automated deployment system using Ansible and Jenkins. Experience with Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, proactively manages change. Experience in Writting Chef Cookbooks and recipes to Provision several pre-prod environments consisting of Deployment automation, AWS EC2 instance mirroring, WebLogic domain creations and several proprietary middleware installations. Experience in implementing elastic search clusters on Microsoft Azure using Terraform scripts. Experience in Branching, Merging, Tagging, and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like GIT, Subversion on Linux platform. Expert in Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installing and configuring Kubernetes. Proficient with Docker based container deployments to create shelf environments for dev teams and containerization of environment delivery for releases. Worked in container-based technologies like Docker, Kubernetes and OpenShift. Expertise in Power shell to do Patching, Imaging and Deployments in Azure. Experience in data migration from Datacenters and On-Premises to cloud using AWS Import/Export Snowball service. Expertise on container orchestration tools, such as Docker Swarm, Mesos, and Kubernetes. Implemented a CI/CD pipeline involving BitBucket, Jenkins, Chef, Docker, and Selenium for complete automation from commit to deployment. Strong knowledge/experience in creating Jenkins CI pipelines. Installed and configured Chef Enterprise and Chef Workstation hosted as well as On-Premise; Bootstrapped Nodes; Wrote Recipes, Cookbooks and uploaded them to Chef-server. Deployed and configured Atlassian Jira, Bugzilla, Remedy for issue tracking, workflow collaboration, and tool-chain automation. Knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies Waterfall and Agile. Experienced in multi platforms like UNIX, Ubuntu, RHEL and Windows 98/XP/Vista/7/8/10 supporting production, test, and development environments. TECHNICAL SKILLS AWS:  EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, ELB, RedShift, Elastic search, CloudWatch, Cloud Formation,, Cloud Trail, SNS, SQS, IAM, WireMock CM Tools:  Chef, Puppet, Ansible CI Tools:  Hudson, Jenkins Build Tools:  ANT, MAVEN Continuous Deployment:  Artifactory, Nexus, Jboss Version Control Tools:  Subversion, Git Monitoring Tools:  Nagios, Splunk and cloud watch Virtualization:  Vagrant, Docker, ESXi, vSphere 4 and vSphere 5Citrix Container Management Tools:  Docker Swarm, kubernetes, Mesos, AWS, ECS Operating Systems:  Cent OS, Ubuntu, RHEL and Windows. Programming languages:  C/C++, Python, XML, HTML, PERL, Shell Scripting, Ruby and PowerShell Application Servers:  Web logic, Web sphere, Apache Tomcat, Nginx Databases:  My SQL, MS SQL, Oracle, PostgreSql, Dynamo DB, Cassandra Bug Tracking Tools:  JIRA, Remedy, HP Quality Center, Bugzilla PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Chicago IL Sr. Devops /AWS Engineer Responsibilities: Experience in Amazon Cloud Services (AWS) and its features (AWS EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, APIs, Route 53, snapshots, Autoscaling, Cloud Formation, Lambda, SES, SQS, SNS, RDS, ELB, EBS, CloudWatch, S3 etc.) Designed, Configured and Deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multiple of applications using the AWS stack (EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, SQS, IAM), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling. Launched and configured Amazon EC2 Cloud Servers using AMI's (Linux/Ubuntu) and configured the servers for specified applications. Focused oncontainerizationand immutable infrastructure. Docker has been core to this experience, along withMesos,Marathon, andKubernetes. IntegratedKuberneteswith network, storage, and security to provide comprehensive infrastructure and orchestrated container across multiple hosts. Launched DNS, Route53 and AWS Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) and assigned AWS SSL s to Servers. Creating Formulas in Wiremock and Tomcat Servers. Ownership for Azure SQL server DB deployment & managed the continues integration & continues deployment. Experience in all facets of full CM process with tools such as GIT, Jenkins, Puppet and Ansible. Involved heavily in setting up the CI/CD pipeline using GitHub, Jenkins, Terraform and AWS. Proficient in automating build and configuration process using tools like Jenkins and Puppet/Ansible. Involved extensive work towards code compilation, packaging, building, debugging, automating, managing, tuning and deploying code across multiple environments and Linux Administration. Expertise in improving build & deployment tools in DevOps through automation using scripting languages such as Python. Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed by Kubernetes Linux, Bash, GIT. Automate provisioning and repetitive tasks usingTerraformandPython, Docker container, Service Orchestration. Used various sources to pull data into Power BI such asSQLServer, SAP BW, Oracle, SQL Azure etc. Creating Wire mock and Tomcat Servers. DevOps Practice for Micro Services Architecture using Kubernetes to orchestrate the deployment, scaling and management of Docker Containers. Experience with variety of databases including relational databases like Oracle, MySQL, MS-SQL and No-SQL database like Cassandra. Deployment of Cloud service includingJenkins and Nexus on Docker using Terraform. Workedon AWS opswork, AWS Lambda, AWS code deploy, AWS cloud formation and Cloud Foundry. DevOps Design, develop, Architect orchestrate task& work and Implement Azure Solutions includes Azure portal & PowerShell scripts update, open, load, edit, download and Deploy Azure Resource Manager (ARM) JSON Templates includes PaaS WebApp, PaaS SQL Server with Tool Azure Resource Manager (ARM) visualizer(ARMVIZ) for Multiple Azure Solutions. Fluent in several software lifecycle models, including Waterfall, SDLC, and Agile. Implemented AWS Redshift to manage data warehouse and running SQL queries. Used AWS Cloud Watch, Nagios as a performance monitoring and analytics tools. Create and Manage cloud watch configurations for Auto scaling (In & Out) launch configurations. Experience in working with container-based deployments using Docker, Docker images, Docker file, Docker Hub, Docker Compose and Docker registries. Responsible for building application full automation pipeline for deployment into AWS using Jenkins, Artifactory, Chef and Terraform. Administration of DevOps tools suite: Puppet Enterprise, AWS, Jenkins, GitHub, JIRA and Nagios, Splunk. Design, develop, Architect and Implement Azure migration issues solutions with FTP, vnet, subnet configuration for sql servers clusters and datacenter clusters. Managed Git Repositories for branching, merging, and tagging, resolved merging issues. Worked on creating the Docker Containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle. Deployed Docker Engines in Virtualized Platforms for containerization of multiple applications. Creating a fully Automated Build and Deployment Platform and coordinating code builds promotions and orchestrated deployments using Jenkins/Hudson and Git Hub. Designed and implemented fully automated server build management, monitored and deployed using DevOps Technologies like Chef. Environment: AWS, IAM, EC2, S3, VPC, RDS, R53, Cloud Watch, WireMock,GIT, Subversion, Docker, Jenkins, Puppet, Chef, Ansible, Nagios, CloudWatch, Micro services, YAML, Shell Scripting, Python Scripting, Cloud AZURE Hybride Solutions, Apache Confidential, Cleveland, OH Sr. Devops AWS Engineer Responsibilities: Experience with Cloud Front, Glacier, Route53, SNS, RDS, AWS Config. Troubleshoot and resolve EC2 instance connectivity and availability issues. Perform resource utilization in AWS by ensuring only needed resources are procured. Managing Vendors & Contractors; ensuring they deliver as agreed in Service Level Agreements (SLA) Oversees development of personnel within the Azure department; directs programs and prepares employee development plans. Configure and Implement Secure Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) for high availability of web and application servers. DevOps role converting existing AWS infrastructure to Server-less architecture (AWS Lambda, Kinesis) deployed via terraform. Building/MaintainingDockercontainer clusters managed byKubernetes, Linux, Bash, GIT,Docker, on GCP. UtilizedKubernetesandDockerfor the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploy. Ensures IT compliance/security with international quality standards and any regulatory requirements for the System and Investments/SAP Procurement, COUPA/Global Finance/Finance/EAS(Email Archive Solution) Virtual Machines of Azure Cloud Solutions. UsingKubernetes, I have controlled and automated application deployments and updates and orchestrated deployment. Involved in AWS EC2/VPC/S3/SQS/SNS based automation through Terraform, Ansible, Python, Bash Scripts. Adopted new features as they were released by Amazon, including ELB & EBS. Involved in migrating client infrastructure from on-premises model onto AWS environment. Conduct POC Services SOA with different multiple Internet Browsers compatibility with Virtual Machines of Azure Cloud Solutions. Performed business requirements analysis and use case to update test cases for Keyword Driven Automation framework Services SOA Framework Using Excel, IBM WebSphere MQ and System Tool TestPartner/QTP/Azure POC SERVICES SOA. Designing & Building client infrastructure on AWS environment with Cost Optimized solutions. Maintaining High Availability, Scalability and Security of application, Configure and Implement VPCs, Subnets, EC2 instances, Security groups, NACL, EBS, Auto Scaling, S3, that are highly available, fault tolerant and scalable in AWS. EA Solution Azure Lead with Azure Solutions & services as PaaS Azure SQL Database maintains data for the website. Copies are deployed in the dev, test and production environments. Installation, configuration and maintenance of Linux Servers such as HTTPD, APACHE2, etc. Experience with Linux Commands and Cross-Platform Cloud Infrastructure including Linux/Unix Systems Administration and Security in AWS, LINUX and Windows environments. Knowledgeable in Virtualization (VMware, Hypervisor), Virtual Private Networking (VPN), Migration of Applications to AWS, Data Security, Backup & Recovery. Implemented AWSCode Pipelineand Created Cloud formationJSONtemplates inTerraformfor infrastructure as code. Perform Monthly Patch Update on AWS servers and Secure application and web servers. Configure and manage CloudWatch alarms to monitor resources in AWS for Disk, Memory, and CPU utilization and other system performance measurements. Perform user, group and application access and permissions in AWS using the Identity and Access Management (IAM). Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed byKubernetes, Linux, Bash, GIT, Docker, on GCP. Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of theCI/CDsystem to build, test deploy. Create, update and maintain Amazon Machine Image (AMI) templates Perform application and system log management and archiving to Amazon S3 bucket. Working with DevOps team to automate tasks in AWS using Ansible, Jenkins, Git and Shell scripting. Written reusable Templates for provisioningAWSinfrastructure as a code usingTerraformto build staging and production environments. Worked on to setup for the various Jenkins CI/CD pipeline configurations for all the micro services & Extensive experience in using Build Automation Dev Ops tools like, Jenkins, Puppet, Chef, GITHUB. EA Solution &EA Solution Azure Lead with Azure Solutions & services as Redis Cache is used in each environment to improve performance of the website. Create a web app with Redis Cache. EA Solution &EA Solution PAAS Azure Lead with Azure Solutions & services as Application Insights monitors the web application during development and test runs, and then monitors the full production system when it’s released. Set up Application Insights for ASP.NET. Expert configuring the Configuration Management tool Ansible in configuring large numbers of servers from a single machine. Automated the complex tasks in managing the entire infrastructure. Cost cutting techniques applied with own written Cloud Formation Stacks by using AWS, Autoscaling Scheduled Actions and Lambda for shutting-down and starting-up the instances based on the requirement or need. Actively monitoring, researching and analyzing ways in which the services in AWS can be improved. Environment: SVN (Subversion), Git, ANT and Maven, Shell scripting. Ansible, Chef, Jenkins, Kubernetes, Docker, Beanstalk, Lambda, AWS S3, AWS EC2, AWS RDS, AWS ELB, Dynamo DB, AWS Lambda and could Confidential - Camp Hill, PA DevOps AWS Engineer Responsibilities: Developed and supported the Software Release Management and procedures, Repositories, views, and the access control strategies. Designed and implemented Subversion and GIT metadata including elements, labels, attributes, triggers and hyperlinks. Azure StoragePlanning Migrated Blob Storage for document and media file, Table storage for structured datasets, Queue storage for reliable messaging for workflow processing and file storage to share file data. Worked for DevOps Platform team responsible for specialization areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation. Administered, Maintained Red Hat 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, troubleshooting hardware, operating systems application & Network Problems and performance issues. Deployed latest patches for Linux and applications server, performed Red Hat Linux Kernel Tuning. Developed CI/CD system withJenkinsonKubernetescontainer environment, usingKubernetesandDockerfor the CI/CD system to build, test and deploy. Converted existingAWSinfrastructure to Serverless architecture withAWS Lambda,Kinesisand deployed withTerraformandAWSCloudFormation. Experienced with deployments, Maintenance and troubleshooting applications on Microsoft Cloud infrastructureAZURE. Administered Linux servers for several functions including managing Apache/Tomcat server, mail server, and MySQL databases in both development and production Bash, shell-scripts to automate routine activities. Installing and configuringTerraformand building the infrastructure using terraform configuration file. Built Jenkins jobs to createAWS infrastructure from GitHubrepos containing terraform code. Implemented SUDO, SSH and other security tools. Implementing password less (SSH) authentication between servers. Migrated database applications from Windows 2000 Server to Linux server Installing and setting up Oracle9i on Linux for the development team Install and configure DHCP, DNS, web (Apache, IIS), mail (SMTP, IMAP, POP3), and file servers on Linux servers. Created reproducible builds of theKubernetesapplications, managedKubernetesmanifest files and releases ofHelmpackages. Scheduled, deployed and managed Container replicas onto a node cluster usingKubernetes. Managed GIT as Source Control Systems. Installed and configured SSH server on Red hat/ CentOS Linux environment. Linux kernel, memory upgrades and swaps area. Red hat Linux Kickstart Installation. Created users, manage user permissions; maintain User & File System quota on Red hat Linux. Used ANT, MAVEN to perform daily and weekly software builds. Implemented &maintained the branching and build/release strategies utilizing Subversion/GIT. Manage configuration of Web App and Deploy to AWS cloud server through Chef. Installed, Configured and Administered Hudson/Jenkins Continuous Integration Tool. Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. Worked on Managing the Private Cloud Environment using Chef. Automated centralized configuration using Puppet. Design, build and automate the AWS infrastructure (VPC, EC2, Networking, EMR, RDS, S3, etc.) using Terraform/Cloud Formation. Strong in building Object Oriented applications using Java, python, Terraform, writing Shell Scripts on UNIX. Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, and Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, Optimized volumes and EC2 instances. Created python scripts to automate security group creation and management from state files versioned in Github. Rewrite existing Java application in Python & Terraform module to deliver certain format of data. Implementing multi-threading using java to reduce load on sever. Built and Deployed Java/J2EE to a web application server in an Agile continuous integration environment and also automated the whole process. Documented project's software release management procedures with input decisions. Involved in periodic archiving and storage of the source code for disaster recovery. Environment: Subversion1.9.5, GIT2.11.0, Anthill pro, Chef12.7.2, Puppet5.1, PowerShell, AWS, Python3.6.0, Java/J2EE, ANT1.10.x, MAVEN3.0.2, JIRA7.2.x, XML, Web logic, Perl Scripts5.26.0, Shell Confidential, Long Island City, NY DevOps/AWS Engineer: Responsibilities: Created highly available and scalable infrastructure in AWS cloud by using various AWSservices like EC2, VPC, RDS, and Route53. Developed and supported the Software Release Management and procedures. Worked with Subversion, Proposed and implemented branching strategy suitable foragile/scrum development in a Fast-Paced Engineering Environment. Monitor the UAT/Production Environments for any down time issues, troubleshooting and performing regular cron job updates in servers. Usedterraformto write infrastructure as code. CreatedTerraformscripts forEC2instances,Elastic Load balancersandS3buckets. Automated end-to-end transit hub connectivity resource deployment inAWSviaterraform. Implement and manage continuous delivery systems and methodologies on AWS. BuildingDocker imagewith Packer and provisioning withKubernetesby usingDocker PackerBuilder. UsedKubernetesfor container management that runsDockercontainerized applications in a cluster ofEC2 instancesin Linux Environment. Created END-END Automation with CI Procedures using Jenkins. Automated Maven builds by integrating them with Continuous Integration tools Jenkins. Involved in Migration process from SVN to GIT. Defined dependencies and plugins in Maven pom.xml for various activities and integrated Maven with GIT to manage and deploy project related tags. Releasing code to testing regions or staging areas according to the schedule published. Efficiently performed the task of resolving conflicts while merging in Subversion with the J2EE development background. Worked on infrastructure with Docker containerization. Performed all necessary day-to-day Subversion/GIT support for different projects. Deployed, Configure and managed the process using Puppet Tool. WrittenTerraformtemplates, Chef Recipes and pushed them into Chef Server for configuring EC2 Instances, and deployed code in to the required environments using AWS Code Deploy. Worked onTerraform,a tool for building, changing and versioning infrastructure safely and efficiently. Involved in periodic archiving and storage of the source code for disaster recovery. Creating S3 buckets and also managing policies for S3 buckets. Implemented Puppet Master, Puppet Console and Puppet Agents, Create Puppet modules and Classes. Deployed Puppet, Puppet Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure. Deployed Puppet for automated management of machine configurations. Redesigned and redeployed the Nagios implementation. Nodes automatically added/removed themselves via Puppet. Used Puppet MCollective to interact with clusters of different servers for continuous deployments. Used M collective for identifying post naming conventions instead of rich set off Meta data. Written reports about our infrastructure using Puppet MCollective. Experience in Server infrastructure development on AWS Cloud, extensive usage of Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Cloud Formation, Cloud Front, EC2, RDS, S3, Route53, SNS, SQS, and Cloud Trail. AWS server provisioning using Chef Recipes. Collaborated with development support teams to setup a continuous delivery environment with the use of build platform tool DOCKER. Deployed a distributed Jenkins environment for continuous integration/builds. All builds output rpm packages as artifacts. Expert in User Management and Plugin Management for Jenkins. Replicated the Jenkins build server to a test VM using Packer, Virtual Box, Vagrant, Chef, Perl brew and Server spec. Hands on experience in monitoring EC2 instances using Nagios. Worked on bug tracking Tool named as Bugzilla where track the bugs and push them forward to the developer team. Coordinate with the Development Teams to receive the correct versions of re-usable and dependent components and with Environment team for issuing/installing successful builds. Environment: Linux, Subversion, Maven, GIT, AWS EC2, VMware, Autoscaling, Glacier, RDS, ELB, AMIECS, weblogic, Jenkins, Python script, Perl script, Bugzilla, Nagios, Puppet, Chef, Docker, JSON. Confidential, NY Build and Release/Devops Engineer Responsibilities: Responsible for management of complex CI/CD environment having GIT, Jenkins, Docker, AWS & Ansible for multiple development teams. Designing and implementing a fully automated server for build management, monitoring, and deployment using Ansible. Setting up the build and deployment automation for Java base project by using JENKINS and Maven. Configured GIT with Jenkins and schedule jobs using POLL SCM option. Responsible for installing Jenkins master and slave nodes. Written Ruby scripts to automate jobs and debugging scripts. Used Apache Tomcat as application server for deploying the artifacts. Refined automation components with scripting and configuration management ansible. Monitored RDS instances and Elastic Load Balancer for performance and availability. Worked on Chef cookbooks/recipes to automate Infrastructure as a code. Managed the software configurations using Enterprise Chef. Setup the Chef Workstation, Chefserver and chef nodes. Automated updating and maintenance process in production environment using Ruby an python scripts. Wrote Cloud Formation scripts to provision and configure stack resources Used EC2 as virtual servers to host GIT, Jenkins and configuration management tool like Ansible. Converted slow and manual procedures to dynamic API generated procedures. Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has Integrated Ansible with Rundeck and Jenkins. Experience writing various customs Ansible Playbooks to simplify and automate day-to-day server administration tasks. Used Ansible Tower, which provides an easy-to-use dashboard and role, based access control, so Confidential Build/Release Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in DevOps migration/automation processes for build and deploy systems. Used Bamboo and implemented CI/CD pipeline using plugins like conditional build step, deploy to Git. Setting up continuous integration and formal builds using Bamboo with the Nexus repository and resolved update, merge and password authentication issues in Bamboo and JIRA. Installed and configured an automated tool Puppet that included the installation and configuration of the Puppet master, agent nodes and an admin control workstation. Wrote Puppet modules for installing different packages, managing versions, setting parameters and manage Web Applications, Config Files, Data Base, Commands, and Users Mount Points. Installed and administered Nexus repository to deploy the artifacts generated by ANT and to store the dependent jars which are used during the build. Analyzed frequently occurring system breaks and automated fixes with repetitive tasks using