OBJECTIVE Seeking an engineering role to exercise and grow key strengths in area of mobility, networking, data and security. SUMMARY Responsible to give DDI’s support in Datacenter. Expertise in utilizing the technical knowledge to provide troubleshooting techniques to the clients. Adaptable in fast - paced environments; worked in + user environment. A self-starter who takes initiative, displays leadership and provides TEMPeffective support to team members and clients. TECHNICAL SKILLS Linux .Net WinXP/08/07/10 & Server 2008/2012 R2 Standard Infoblox DDI Bulk Reclaim Bulk Add to Infoblox DNS 6.10 Mac OS 10.7 Active Directory SCCM RAID file systems HP Service Manager PRO Exchange ITIL framework ILM SharePoint MS Access MS Excel MS Lync MS Outlook MSWord MS Power Point Adobe Acrobat Putty Remedy Action Request System (ARS) Service Now& Windows PowerShell VMware Microsoft Office 365 Microsoft Office Cisco WebEx Citrix XenDesktop Citrix XenApp Perfect Law AIM Workshare. Meraki Security Appliances Dell PowerEdge Servers Nimble SAN Meraki Wireless Routers APC UPS PCs laptops printers and peripherals iPhone Android and various hand-held devices and tablets. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Windows / Server IP Network Administrator Confidential, Houston, TX Responsibilities: Responsible day to day activity to manage DDIs on Infoblox Manage tool and perform tasks to configure Load balancing & Aliases and also DNS changes by using Portal Bulk add & Bulk reclaim. Working with firewall team to assign NCS requests. VMware Consultant with an experience in System Administration & VMware Virtualization Infrastructure with extensive experience in Consolidation, Management, Administration and Maintenance of virtual servers and clients. Hands-on work experience in Installing, Maintaining, Monitoring, Troubleshooting and Managing Blade Center server. Participated in scheduled DDI support in Data Center maintenance & migration. Responsible for day-to-day operations in the data center and worked closely with network engineers. Expertise in buildingWindows Servers. Working knowledge of imaging utilities such as Ghost, SCCM, etc. Responsible to assign IPs to its FQDNs to the servers as per client request. Migration from previous operating systems to Windows10 on over 100 PCs to maintain the company technological and security requirements. Performed all customer communication and scheduling for the Windows2008 OS upgrade project. Working in Active Directory, GPOs, DNS, DHCP & PrintServer. Experience in Managing MultipleWindows Systems with Microsoft SCCM providing Patch Management, Remote Control, Software Distribution and OS deployment. Extensive understanding of Networking concepts, (me.e. Configuration of Networks, Router Configuration and Wireless Security, TCP/IP, VPN, Content Filtering, VLANs tagging, and Routing in LAN/WAN, Ethernet Port, Patch Panel and Wireless Networks) Provided on-call troubleshooting support for corporate data center -Windows servers, VMware, Share Point. Freelance IT Confidential, Houston TX Responsibilities: Removing PC/Printers and Installing new. Upgrading PCs to Windows 7/8/10 Upgrading Servers to Windows 2008/2012R2 Troubleshooting and repairing Point of Sale(POS), Printers, PCs, servers, routers, CCTV system, Flat Screen Television and various electronic equipment. Installing Wall Devices like Notebook PC for medical offices Upgrading routers and cradle point devices for retail stores Running cat5/6 cable for various installation. Installing Access points. RF Design Engineer Confidential, SFO, CA Responsibilities: Contracted for a short-term LTE RF Design and Modernization project to achieve milestones. Accomplished RF design for LTE sites for Carrier Expansion, Power and Capacity Enhancement, Bandwidth Expansion. Achieved RF Modernization for LTE sites for PCS 4TXRX Antenna Retrofit, and Cell site RF Modifications. To attend Scoping meeting as RF MOD Engineer with C&E, Site Acquisition, Turf-Vendors to propose the solution for Design and Modernization of the sites. Responsible for Radio Frequency Data Sheet population for Sfo Market. To create, update, and submit the LTE sites’ Design/Modernization BDMs for approval based on the notes from scoping meeting. To attend Drawing Review Meeting (DRM) to audit the Construction Drawings and provide Redline Review. Created/Updated/Reviewed Radio Frequency Data Sheet, and constructed Plumbing Diagrams for NSB's, LTE overlays, Carrier add, Modernization of 4C WCS, 5C 700D/E, 6C 850 based on Baseband, Antenna, Radio Units, and other LTE Equipment configurations, as per requirements. Hands on experience with RF design tools such as, Atoll, Auto forms, MapInfo, Confidential &T proprietary tools such as BDM Database, FileNet Database, and RMAP Database. Performed data validation (comparing Atoll project transmitter table, redline RFDS and scoping sheet) and generated delta reports for all inconsistencies found for PICD and DFCD projects. To Use Atoll & iBwave tools to run baseline & optimized predictions, KPI reports for RSRP, RSRQ, interference, & # of servers Confidential 5dB/10dB & Monte Carlo simulations. Performed Analysis & created Technical Approvals packages for LTE’s NSBs, Relo, Carrier Add, and Sector Split to provide KPI’s to meet approval standards by utilizing Atoll. Used Atoll predictions for Network Analysis to select proper Antenna model, Azimuth, Height, and Tilts based upon Coverage and Capacity requirements. Atollproject setup, Monte Carlo Simulations, optimization based on KPIs. Performed projects in different bands and bandwidths (700MHz, PCS, AWS, and WCS). Created, reviewed, and approved SARF/SCIP candidates within geographic area by taking into consideration baseline, performance issues, capacity using Atoll. Created different propagation models using Atoll as per the requirements and updated Atoll database as per the design details. Created Traffic map for LTE, using forecasted coverage using HARP tool and coverage by transmitter data from Atoll. Creating Scripts and logs during the project. Reading & Manipulating data from sites, integrating new sites and performing data analysis. Working on Tems Investigation, JDSU test Software for Continuous Wave Testing (CW), Single Side Testing, analyzed scanner data and existing GSM/UMTS/EDGE/HSPA and CDMA networks (1x and EV-DO); applied the results and different scenarios together to maximize the wireless network quality. To calculate the losses and the attenuation in uplink and downlink. Validate RF parameter optimization to improve and maintain network performance. Studied real-time UE data to improve network accessibility and retainability. Prepared reports of the conducted drive tests using MapInfo and checked for network related performance issues in the received data. Assisted in management of capacity related projects and performed candidate evaluation to determine final cell site locations. Monitored various radio parameters and channel related parameters of each site. Checked for blocked calls, dropped calls and optimum intra-cell and neighbor handover functionality of each site. Desktop / Tech (Tier-III) Confidential, Houston, TX Responsibilities: Responded to requests for technical assistance in person via phone and remotely for the following technologies: Windows 10 and Mac OS 10.7 based end points (Lenovo Laptops, Desktops & Thin Clients) Tablets & Smartphones (IOS & Android) and Microsoft Office365. Also, Installation of Windows Server and its troubleshooting by DOS commands. Used day by day activity on ServiceNow & Remedy Action Request System (ARS) for ticket resolution. Experience of Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager and Windows Active directory. Install the Firmware, it’s troubleshoot & test of HP technologies (3PAR, 3COM, Nodes, X4PI & Mass Storage). Confidential, Houston, TX Resident Desktop Support Engineer  Responsibilities: Experience on windows 10/08/07, Mac OS 10.7 and its installation, configuration of computer hardware & software. Setup new user's accounts and profiles and handled password issues. Perform test and evaluate the network devices for deployment and managed inventory and created monthly reports and also followed up with diagrams and written instructions to repair a fault or set up a system.