SUMMARY Over 7 years of experience in DevOps, Release Engineering, Configuration Management. Extensive experience on DevOps essential skills like Continuous Integration, Continuous Deployment, Continuous Delivery,supporting BuildPipelines, Release management,configuration management( Infrastructure as a code) and Cloud Computing. Have a good experience in writing many ad - hoc scripts using many popular different languages like Python and Shell based scripting. Solid understanding of Software Development Life Cycle like Waterfall methodology and Agile methodology and Scrum. Proficiency in authoring and managing configuration management frameworks, such as Saltstack. Prior experience working wif common developer tool chains to achieve Continuous Integration. (Jenkins,Bamboo, TeamCity). Solid understanding of current web and internet technologies like Apache,Tomcat, Nginx, MongoDB, Cassandra, Elastic search, Memcache. Extensively worked wif Change tracking tools like BMC Remedy, JIRA and used these tracking, reporting and managing bugs. Created and managed a Docker deployment pipeline for custom application images in the cloud using Jenkins. Hands on experience developing and executing Shell scripts. Experience in agile methodologies and ITIL service management. Highly organized, able to multi-task, the ability to work individually, wifin a team, and wif other groups. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: LINUX (RHEL), Ubuntu, CentOS 7. CI/CD Tools: Jenkins, Bamboo. Build Tools: ANT, MAVEN. Version Tools: Tortoise SVN, GIT. Cloud Technologies: Amazon Web Services (AWS), EC2, EBS, VPC, RDS, ELB, Autoscaling, S3, CloudFront, CloudFormation, ElasticCache, CloudWatch, SNS, AWS Import / Export Database: MySQL, MongoDB, SQL Server,Oracle Languages/ Scripting: Shell Scripting, Python Scripting SDLC: Agile, Waterfall Web / Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, WebSphere Application Server Web technologies: Servlets, JDBC, JSP, HTML, XML. Monitoring Tools: Zabbix, Nagios, Splunk Virtualization: VMware, Vsphere, XEN, VMware VSphere,Vcenter Orchestrator. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential -Houston, TX DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Administration and Configuration management of version control systems GIT. Developed and maintained the continuous integration and deployment systems using Jenkins, Docker and Salt Stack. Developed and implemented up the monitoring infrastructure for systems, applications using Zabbix. Implemented Salt formulas for configuration management. Created ease in provisioning wif light weight containers by creating Images wif Docker. Ensured appropriate quality controls and approvals were in place prior to code promotions, tracking and documenting all release changes. Handled deployment coordination across teams.Configured Logstash: input, filter, output plugins - database, JMS, log file sources and elastic search as output. Responsible for testing and implementing Metricbeat, Auditbeat and Filebeat on the entire infrastructure for monitoring purpose. Responsible for designing and deploying new ELKclusters (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana, beats, Kafka, zookeeper etc.) Developed and maintained scripts for deployment automation to multiple environments. Developed deployment processing wif application server Tomcat. Configured the Dockercontainers and creating Dockerfiles for various environment and worked onkubernetes environment. Used Docker for local application deployment and test and did Orchestrating between container using Dockerswarm and writing Docker files. Dockerimages includes setting the entry point and volumes, also ran Dockercontainers. Automated builds to the Docker hub on every commit and release. Environment: Jenkins, Maven, Git, Salt Stack, Docker, Nginx, docker, Tomcat. Confidential, Chicago, IL DevOps Intern Responsibilities: Maintained and administered GIT source code tool. Managed UNIX's server services such as Bind DNS, Puppet, Postfix, Apache web server, Tomcat, MYSQL. Scanning the newly assigned LUNs to the serves and assigning them to volume group and increasing the file system using Red Hat volume manager. Mounting & un-mounting the net app storage LUNs to the Red Hat Linux servers and troubleshooting the issues encountered Planned and performed. Responsible for Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery process implementation using Jenkins along wif Python and Shell scripts to automate routine jobs. Worked wif configuration management tool puppet. Configured puppet and wrote cookbooks, for automation deployment, repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, environment configuration. Developed build and deployment script using Python and shell scripting. Involved in installing Puppet client on Red hat&Solaris servers for Automation purpose. Developed shell scripts to automate the system management functions and system backup. As a member of Release Engineering group, redefined processes and implemented tools for software builds, patch creation, source control, and release tracking and reporting. Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution. Lead and assisted wif the scoping, sequencing, planning, and creating GIT environments. Provided 'Manual', 'Continuous Integration', 'Gated Check-in' and 'Schedule' builds (along wif the option to force builds on that schedule even if no changes occurred since the last build). Experience working on several Docker components like DockerEngine, Hub, Machine, Compose and DockerRegistry. Experience in installation and configuration of GitHub on the Linux and Windows environment. Experience working on Dockerhub, creating Docker images and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations. Worked on Dockercontainer snapshots, attaching to a running container, removing images, managing Directory structures and managing containers. Environment: GIT, Jenkins, MAVEN, Puppet, Java/J2EE, JIRA, Tomcat, Docker, Python Scripts, Shell Scripts, XML, UNIX, Windows, Nagios, Cloud watch. Confidential  Build and Release Engineer Responsibilities: Integrated the Code Quality Analysis tools like Find Bugs, Jun it and Check style into the projects. Managed Maven project dependencies by creating parent-child relationships between projects. Analyzed the ANT build projects for conversion. Converting the ANT build projects to Maven build projects. Developed the Maven build pom.xml scripts. Experience in building CI/CD pipelines wif the Atlassian products (Bamboo). Build and Administered the Bamboo Continuous Integration servers. Build and Configured Bamboo Elastic for Parallel Job execution. Creating build jobs, integration testing jobs and deploy jobs in Bamboo to automate the process. Tracking tasks and controlling changes in the cross-disciplinary field ofconfiguration management using SCM. Installed and configured the Web Logic application servers for Dev and Integration Test Environments. Built and deployed Java/J2EE artifacts onto the Web Logic Application Servers in an agile continuous integration process. Using Build Forge version control tools for developing multiple applications on Source codes repository. Involved in periodic archiving and storage of the source code for disaster recovery. Developed, maintained, and distributed release notes for each scheduled release. Worked on Oracle10g database. Patched different software using RedHat Package Manager and YUM. Installed certain RPM packages, which were not installed default for Oracle. Installed and configured Apache ANT for automated build processing using RPM. Implemented VMWarevSphere 5.0 wif Enterprise Plus Features of VDIstributedSwitch and Host Profiles Upgrade Experience from VMWare Infrastructure 4.1 to vSphere 5.0 Update 2 including vCenter5.0, ESXi Hosts, Update manager, vSphere client, and Virtual machines tools Configured Logical Volume manager to create, extend and maintain volumes. Environment: Java J2EE, WebSphere, Git, Integrated Ant Maven and Build Forge, MAVEN, Jenkins, Bamboo, LINUX, XML, Perl Scripts, Shell Scripts. Confidential Systems Engineer Responsibilities: Deploying the Red Hat Linux enterprise server as like existing versions 5.x, 6.x versions. Creating the VM shell and pushing the operating system using the kick start server. Creation of Kick start images for the different version of Red Hat Linux Operating system like 5.x and 6.x Creating the file systems using Red Hat volume manager and performing the health check on regular basis for all Linux servers. Experience working in the JIRA environment. Scanning the newly assigned LUNs to the servers and assigning them to volume group and increasing the file system using red hat volume manager. Mounting and unmourning the net app storage LUNs to the Red hat Linux servers and troubleshooting the issues encountered. Creating Link aggregation (LACP) wif VLAN tunneling using virtual connect (VC). Performance Tuning and Management for Linux/AIX server and working wif the application/database team to resolve issues. Creating the file system and RAW logical volumes for the Oracle RAC based on the requirement. Upgrading the kernel in all the Red hat Linux servers and creating initrd image to boot from the Upgraded kernel. Migration of Red hat Linux servers from 4.x version and working wif the application team to resolve the issues post migration. Managing the ESXi servers using the Vsphere client and Vcenter for managing the multiple ESXi servers. Building the Red hat Linux server in VMware ESX client through Vsphere client. Performed NIS, NFS, LDAP server, Web logic, Apache Tomcat, EMC StorageSAN. Installed and Configured SAMBA Server in Linux for accessing the shared files from the Windows environment.