SUMMARY Around 7 years of extensive experience as a Fullstack/web Developer with solid understanding of Object Oriented Design and analysis with extensive experience in the full life cycle of the software design process including requirement definition, prototyping, Proof of Concept, Design, Implementation and Testing. Experience on Web Technologies using HTML4/5, CSS2/CSS3, XHTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, IDE&Tool Eclipse, Notepad++XMLandJSON. Expertise in application development using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, EJB2.0/3.0, XML, Oracle ADF, Web Services - SOAP, WSDL. Expertise in designing and developing enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like EJB2.1/3.0, Struts 1.2/2.0,Spring 3.0 and 4.0, JDBC, JNDI,JMS,JAXB, SAX/DOM, Web services. Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT, XPATH and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB. Expertise in developing Web based Distributed and Front End applications in a three-tier architecture using Java, J2EE, HTML5, angular js, Ajax, Node JS, JSP, Servlets, CSS, JavaBeans. Expertise in implementing Web services and JMS for the synchronous and asynchronous communications between two applications running in different servers. Expertise in design patterns including Front Controller, Data Access Object, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, MVC, Data Transfer Object and Singleton. Expertise in workflow management tools like ALBPM/OBPM, Talend BI and TOAD tool for accessing the Database server. Expertise in Web Services architecture in SOAP and WSDL using JAX-RPC. Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL and PL/SQL programming. Good Working knowledge of ANT, MAVEN and Log4J. Expertise on user interface using SWING, AWT Events Good hands on experience with Express, Angular.js, Node.js Solid experience with Responsive Web Design(RWD). Extensive knowledge in HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3. Knowledge in BackBone.js,Angular.js,Reactjs. Good Knowledge in Angular.js, Backbone.js and Twitter Bootstrap. Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD) with involvement in several web application development projects. Excellent experience in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines(WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming(OOP) with JavaScript. Involved in the Software Life Cycle phases like AGILE and estimating the timelines for projects. Very good experience in Document Object Model(DOM). Good experience with Form Validation by Regular Expression, and Jquery Light box. Strong understanding of Object Oriented Programming. Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with strong attention to detail. Demonstrated ability to complete projects in deadline oriented environments. Quick learner and proficient in solving the technical issues in the project. Excellent analytical and communication skills with capability to handle new technologies. TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies: JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Java Beans, MVC, Struts, EJB, JSF, JMS, SOAP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Agile, CSS 3, XML and HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Apache. JavaScript Libraries: JQuery, Ext.js, angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Bootstrap,React,Redux. IDE & Tools: Eclipse,Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Sublime Text2, Text Mate, Microsoft Publisher,webstorm,Atom. Development Tools: Adobe Photoshop CS5, Adobe Illustrator Version Control: CVS, SVN,GIT Publishing Tools: Adobe PageMaker, MS Office Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall Database: Oracle 11g/10g/9i, MySQL, MSSQL, Teradata, PLSQL, Unix. Operating System: Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Cary NC Web/ java developer Responsibilities: Design, develop, test, debug, implement, and document moderately complex software components using Java technologies - JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, HTML/XML, JavaScript, AJAX, Unix and windows operating systems with development tools like Eclipse, WSAD, RAD, and SQL Developer. Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection (IOC) and integrated with the Hibernate. Developed a presentation layer using JSP, HTML, CSS, Angular js and client validations using JavaScript. Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, and JavaScript. Followed techniques and principles provided by test driven design (TDD) paradigm for developing quality code. Analyzed, designed and implemented application based on Object Oriented programming i.e., Object oriented Analysis and Design. Documented and communicated application design using UML diagrams like sequence diagrams, class diagrams, use case diagrams. Developed Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB 3.0) for implementing application’s business rules and policies. Familiar with Service oriented architecture (SOA) by developing and consuming Restful web services based on JAX-RS and Jersey. Coded JSP pages and used JavaScript for client side validations and to achieve other client-side event handling. Used Spring Security framework for login authentication, password hashing. Worked with topic for creating publish/subscribe-messaging model. Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3,Java Server Faces 2.0 (JSF 2.0), JSP, Facelets,JSTL, JavaScript, AngularJS andnode.js, AJAX,ExtJS,Jasmine. Developed java script functions to fetch the data from the Google analytics API. Transformed design mockups from UX Designers and Product Managers into semantic W3C standard HTML templates and CSS. Able to construct prototype experimental features quickly with functional HTML/CSS/JavaScript. Created and managed all of hosted or local repositories through SourceTree's simple interface of GIT client, collaborated with GIT command lines and Stash. Client implementation was a custom, SPA framework that utilizedjQueryand (all routing, data access, caching, etc., implemented as custom JavaScript code). Have good communication skills to discuss the projects with technical and non-technical SME's. Environment: Core Java, Java, Spring MVC,, Apache, JSP, JSF, Struts,GWT,Angular JS,nodeJS swing, JNDI, Log4j, JUnit 4.5, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Web logic, Server 10.0, JBoss, Windows XP and IBM MQ Series, Apache CFX, bootstrap, Git, REST Web Services Confidential, Connecticut Web developer Responsibilities: Responsible for the design and development of fast and responsive JavaScript web applicationsusing client-side MVC frameworks such as Backbone.js while utilizing a backend REST API. Experience in all phases of software development life cycle SDLC, which includes User Interaction,Business Analysis/Modeling,Design/Architecture,Development, Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing, and Deployment Hands on knowledge of JavaScript MVC frameworks such as Backbone JS and Angular JS and AureliaJS. Worked on Agile methodology and experience working in a fast-paced Scrum environment. Extensive experience in DOM and DOM functions. Used CSS pre-processors (SASS) Responsible for code optimization and testing across other browsers. Involved in writing integration test cases using mocha & chai, using webdriverio and selenium-standalone. Good Web Application debugging skills using Chrome Developers Tool and Firebug. Knowledge in developing applications using SCRUM methodology. Experience working with RESTFUL API's at consumer level. Created and managed all of hosted or local repositories through SourceTree's simple interface of GIT client, collaborated with GIT command lines and Stash. Created and optimized views for user interactions using objects ofHTMLHelper class, Custom Helpers andBackboneJs. Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS. Client implementation was a custom, SPA framework that utilizedjQueryand (all routing, data access, caching, etc., implemented as custom JavaScript code). Involved in the POC for a data visualization application to demo the insurance customers data by using the latest javascript library called D3.js Familiar with Service oriented architecture (SOA) by developing and consuming Restful web services based on JAX-RS and Jersey. Coded JSP pages and used JavaScript for client side validations and to achieve other client-side event handling. Used Spring Security framework for login authentication, password hashing. Environment: Core Java, Java, Spring MVC,, Apache, JSP, JSF, Struts,GWT,Angular JS,nodeJS swing, JNDI, Log4j, JUnit 4.5, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Web logic, Server 10.0, JBoss, Windows XP and IBM MQ Series, Apache CFX, bootstrap, Git, REST Web Services Confidential, Westlake, TX Web developer Responsibilities: Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams, using UML to model the detail design of the application. Used Jquery and CSS for the UI Development Implemented Asynchronous and UI effects using AJAX and Jquery Developed the application front end using Jakarta Struts Framework: developed action classes, form beans and Java Server Pages Developed a web-based reporting for credit monitoring system with HTML, JSTL, custom tags and Tiles using Struts framework Developed Session beans which encapsulate the workflow logic Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object(DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing Testing and deploying the full application on Websphere Application server Developed XML Web services for retrieving credit information from the credit bureau Developed Web services for booking facility of the customers. Participated in code review, requirement validation sessionsand design sessions. Worked on the debugging, fixing and testing the existing bugs in the Framework and adding new features to the application. Experience working with Redux formaintaining the consistency and for running the applicationin different environments (client, server, and native) which was also easy to test. Experience working with build, code package & source code management such as GIT. Working with React JavaScript library for building User interfaces. Experience working on Flux architecture which allows to cut down the loading time of the application considerably. Experience working on ReduxUni-directional data-flow achieving the predictable application behavior. Worked with Bootstrapfor developing responsive, mobile first projects on the web. Written Unit test cases using Karma, mocha.js. Worked with JASMINE and MOCHA in testing and performed Unit testing and performance testing using JUNIT. Responsible coding in ECMA Script6 features. Worked with the team of architects to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features. Developed tested cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Worked in a cross-functional product team with a Product owner, UX/UI designers, BA, QA, back-end and front-end developers. Written code with strong emphasis on different versions of browser compatibility issues. Used Sass as CSS preprocessor. Involved in application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML. Experience working with Rally for Agile planning tool. Environment: Core Java, Java 1.6, Spring MVC, Clear Case, Apache, JSP, JSF, Struts, swing, JNDI, Log4j, JUnit 4.5, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Web logic Application Server 10.0, JBoss, Apache Tomcat 6.0, Oracle 10g, Windows XP and IBM MQ Series, Apache CFX, bootstrap, Git, REST Web Services Confidential, Bentonville, AR Web developer Responsibilities: Involved in theSoftware Development Life Cyclephases like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and estimating the time-lines for the project. Developed front-end/presentation tier development using JSP, Servlet, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS. Followed Agile Methodology, worked in Sprints of 15 days and handle Modules like Billing and ticketing. Involved in the process of analysis, design, and development of an application. Responsible for working with the client on establishing deliverables, timeline, budget, managing project scope and project resources. Debugging and Troubleshooting any technical issues while implementing the applications Extensively worked on Spring Frame Work Responsible for writing SQL and PL/SQL queries for writing stored procedures Worked on ticketing and Billing Module Implementation of RESTful WebService and SOA Architecture Build configuration in Hudson Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases. Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate, Leveraged the AOP features ofspring framework to handle exceptions. Utilized Java Swing framework to develop client side components. Used Spring Framework’s IOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object into Action Classes. Involved in writing code to transform XML documents using JAXP (SAX and DOM Parsers). Involved in the development of data points as per ULDD(Uniform Loan Delivery Dataset). Developed additional data points for XML formatted file using XML beans. Contributed in design and development of Struts/MVC web based application. Service layer development using Spring Core Framework. Used EJB to develop enterprise applications. Used Struts Tiles and Validator framework in developing the applications. Involved in writing JSP and JSF components. Used JSTL Tag library (Core, Logic, Nested, Bean and Html tag libs) to create standard dynamic web pages. Developed action classes and form beans and configured the struts-config.xml Provided client side validations using Struts Validator framework and JavaScript. Used Hibernate in persistence layer and written hibernate mapping files and Named Queries. Effectively prepared for and organized technical inspections to review code and design models with peers and software architects. Involved in performing Unit and Integration testing (JUnit). Strictly followed Test Driven Development (TDD Approach) environment using Agile methodologies. Used Clear Case for source Version Control. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, XHTML, HTML, CSS, XML, DOM, MVC, Core Java, Java 1.6, Spring MVC, Clear Case, Apache, JSP, JSF, Struts, swing, JNDI, Log4j, JUnit 4.5, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Web logic Application Server 10.0, JBoss, Apache Tomcat 6.0, Oracle 10g, Windows XP and IBM MQ Series, Apache CFX. Confidential Web Developer Responsibilities: Developed presentation-tierJSP pages inHTML, Implemented JQuery Data Grid control, Validation control and other Widget controls. Developed Web forms/user interfaces using Struts MVC,jQuery and JSP. Used Ajax Controls, Web forms, JavaScript and HTML for Commission, Payment and Inventory reports. Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panelto manage the post back of the web page to server,AJAX Script Managerand Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files. Used JavaScript accordingly for validation purpose, browser detection and controls. Developed various AJAX controls and widgets to build a richUser Interfacefor the application. Created Windows services to create automation processing ofXML. Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to maintain design consistency across allweb forms. Involved in developing jQuery and AJAX wrapper classes for fast retrieval of data and for animations. Worked with XPath, XML Node, XML Data documents to synchronize with dataset. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, XPath, AJAX, JSP, Struts, Servlet, MVC, Junit, Oracle, Windows. 