SUMMARY Around 5 years of professional experience in application design, analysis, development, integration, debugging, implementation and testing of various client/server N - tier web application using multiple UI-Technologies and software development methodologies. 2 years of Extensive experience in Web and Mobile apps development, Responsive UI development by using React Js +Redux, React native + Redux, Phonegap, IONIC framework, ANGULAR 2+, HTML5, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, API Service integration, SQLite, Firebase, JSON parsing, Using web Service. Excellent knowledge of JavaScript, CSS3/CSS, HTML5/HTML, Bootstrap, TypeScript and their behavior on different browsers. Hands on knowledge of JavaScript MVC frameworks such as BackboneJS, AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, RequireJS. Worked on Agile methodology and having experience working in a fast-paced Scrum environment. Strong understanding of SASS and LESS as CSS preprocessors Worked on developing CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, ReactJS and NodeJS) and REST based API. Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Wire-framing, Bootstrap. Expertise in developing front end web applications and designing interfaces by using client scripting such as JavaScript and JavaScript frameworks like JQuery. Experience with object oriented client-side scripting using Typescript, ES6 and JavaScript frameworks, including jQuery, Angular2.0. Extensive use of Webpack to build Typescript Modules. Developed SOA based application with RESTful and SOAP web services and with the XML/JSON. Working with ECMA Script 6 features. Used Babel, web pack with es2015, react JSX presets. Knowledge of using flux architecture in ReactJS for building client side web application. Knowledge of rendering large data sets on the application view using ReactJS. Experienced in React JS and working with Redux architecture. Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, JavaScript functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug. Having experience in developing CSS preprocessors like LESS/SASS, and table-less layouts using CSS, experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo-Classes, and Pseudo-Elements. Strong experience with Search Engine Optimization (SEO) principles and Cross Browser Compatibility issues, graphic optimization for the web, including browser-safe palettes and file size management. Experience in Responsive web design (RWD) with the UI compatibility being multi-device compatible (Desktop, Tablet, Mobile - iOS, Android), application architecture, visual design, wireframes, and Cross Browser Compatible following web 2.0 specifications. Experience in integrating RESTFUL APIs and web services with applications. Implemented CRUD operation using NoSQL technologies Worked on AWS to integrate the picture files to the UI. And worked for the backend development using Node.js and Mongo DB. Experience with Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture, Model-View-View-Model (MVVM), design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD) Experience in using Testing tools like JUnit and building tools like Ant. Used Node Package Manager (NPM) Grunt, Express, underscore.js, require.js, mongoose, mongo.js, body-parser, and socket.io. Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT and SVN. Experience in using protocols such as HTTP, HLS, RTMP, TCP/IP. Experience in Unit Testing (UIT), Integration Testing and in preparing test cases. Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues. Involved in the Software Life Cycle phases like AGILE and estimating the timelines for projects. Strong problem-solving with capability to handle new technologies, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE React JS Developer Confidential, Minneapolis MN Responsibilities: Developed dynamic web pages using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, jQuery, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Less, CSS3, SASS and AJAX. Implemented client-side Interface using ReactJS, Experienced in working with Redux architecture. Designed modular and reusable React components using Flux Architecture and Material-UI. Developed websites using cross browser development, CSS, CSSanimations, CSS prefixes and CSS pre-processors. Developed single page applications using React Redux architecture, ES6, web pack and grunt. Developed various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager). Created app that called a Java function and used Node/Express to display information to React Native UI Involved in creating a reusable component using React JS for DOM manipulation. Worked heavily on CSS3 and LESS layout for DOM manipulation. Closely worked with Application using React.JS and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly. Used Node.jsto run Webpack tasks and build properly the project. Implemented modules into NodeJSto integrate with designs and requirements. Implemented Initial setup and component migration to Redux. Created property search page using Ionic framework components; retrieved property data and images. Built backend REST API with Node.js, Express.js. Experienced consuming APIs using AJAX and manipulating/consuming JSON objects. Worked with HTML5 APIs for Video, Audio, Files, etc. Used Polymers in creating web components and developed browser API's to custom HTML elements Developed REST API for test server for Express Router middleware based API's with Mongo DB integration. Experienced in working with Babel, Gulp, NPM, NPM scripts, andWebpack in application build and deployment processes. Implemented ECMA Script 6 features, alongside Babel, WebPack with es2015, React JSX presets. Implemented HTTP REST API using NodeJS and extensively tested RESTful services using POSTMAN. Build prototype for various required services such as Logging, Scheduling and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library. Has worked with Node.JS for writing code in the server side and creating scalable network applications. Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with mongo dB. Worked on debugging JavaScript ECMA script 6 and HTML code withFirefox Firebug and Google chrome JavaScript debugger. Created UI templates and functionality to be merged with the backend REST/SOAP API for proper communication of front and back end to enable efficient working of application Implemented services, controllers, directives, factory functions to properly consume API on the front end and send back data in JSON format to the back end by capturing in the UI Experience in working with RESTful Web Services and implementing RESTful API's and SOAP protocols. Worked with JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js Worked with Grunt, Gulp for task runner configurations for minification, watch, jshint, jscs, css autoprefixer, sass compilation, bundling and test runner configurations and make it available as a command. Performed Unit Testing with tools like Karma and Jest. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap 3, JSON, AJAX, NodeJS, ReactJS, Grunt, Gulp, GIT, REST & SOAP (web services), Jasmine, CDN, Karma, JIRA Webpack. MERN STACK Developer Confidential, Atlanta, GA Responsibilities: Architecting new MERN Stack (React/ Express/Hapi/Node) applications and environments Experience in creating SPA considering unidirectional stream application utilizing React-Redux and Node JS. Helped plan and manufacture React and Redux front end of stage. Involve in creating reusable UI components using react js Created structures to gather and approve information from the client in HTML5 and ReactJS. Unified code base utilizing React.js and Node.js for both server/customer side rendering with isomorphic. Used React.js library capacities for the coherent usage part at customer side for all the application. Created React.js for reusable parts (multi-field frame components, foundation record transfers). Implement react redux for generating visualization reports Developed non-useful HTML5, CSS pages from the taunt ups and included in UI survey with Architect and Business Units. Improved a key piece of the code and utilized Node, Grunt and Developer instruments. Built custom UI Widgets and Application rationale utilizing MVC engineering. Experience in precise D3.js for working with the doughnut and the line diagram. Designed dynamic customer side JavaScript, codes to fabricate web shapes and reenact prepare for web application, page route and frame approval. Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to introduce the necessaries bundles from my application. REST utilizes the standard HTTP ask for and reaction instrument, disentangling execution and accommodating a looser coupling of the customer and server. Widely utilized improvement methods in existing code. Was mindful to speak with End customer to bolster the application and broke down/settled the issue Developed generation CSS utilizing LESS to keep up an adaptable plan framework. Extensively utilized Bootstrap for quick advancement and styling of HTML parts. Tested structures utilizing Mocha and Karma. Debugged the application utilizing Firebug to navigate the records and controlled the Nodes utilizing DOM and DOM Functions utilizing Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE. Involved in different periods of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement Gathering, Design and Analysis and code advancement. Involved in bug settling and helped QA group in exploring through the pages. Worked with the group of engineers and back-end Developers to accumulate prerequisites and upgrade the application usefulness and include new components. Environment: React JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, Sublime Text 2, MongoDB, NodeJS, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Restful web-services, Grunt, Gulp, karma, JIRA, Mocha, HTML5, CSS3 Web/UI Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned. Designed Webpages using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS or positioning. Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review. Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.js. Used jQuery to make the HTML, Bootstrap and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to thewebpages at the client side. Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across thewebpages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop. Enhanced user experience by designing new webfeatures using MVC Framework like angular.js. Created interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.js and JQuery. Created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML. Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on theUIfor DOM/CSS Manipulation. Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface. Extensively worked with making calls to APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on theUIfor DOM/CSS Manipulation. Developed WebServices for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Apache Axis and SOAP Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration. Provided production level code to the engineering team for product development, including cross-browser support, CSS optimization, and ADA compliance support. Designed and development of PL/SQL batches using .Net with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling. Worked with different third party vendors for creating and integrating new modules like parade-perks, parade-mobile site, Coupons, Numbrix IPad Apps, Dash Save & Serve etc. Environment: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, Boot strap, JavaScript, JQuery, Asp.net, DHTML, MVC, DOM, JSON, D3.js, Angular.js, AJAX, Apache Axis, SOAP, XML, XPATH, Adobe Flash, Photoshop CS6, PLSQL, Windows, TFS, Visual Studio. 