SUMMARY Around 6+ years of experience as a Front - End web developer in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML4.0/5, CSS3, XHTML, XML, JAVA SCRIPT, JQUERY, JSON, AJAX, Angular.js and Angular2.0, Angular 4.0, Angular 5.0,React.js and Node.js. Having experience in developing JavaScript MVC frameworks like Backbone.js, Angular.js, Require.js (AMD), HTML Templates, JavaScript Unit Testing (Jasmine, Karma) and CSS, SASS pre-processors. Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) i.e. web applications using Angular.js,Backbone.js, node.js, handlebars and mustache.js. Valuable experience in creating services as classes in typescript importing into the Components in Angular 4.0. Expertise in using the Angular 4.0 Directives, Dependency Injection, Services, Routing, pipes, Animations, Forms etc. Worked with http interceptor’s configurations for security in Angular 4.0 applications. Configured with gulp.js to test the JavaScript with JSHint, run unit tests with Jasmine-Karma (for the Angular.js projects), compile SASS and concatenate, minify and Gzip the source code for deployment. Worked on different Package docs like Web Pack and BABEL as transpiler, Good Knowledge on Deployment in AWS services such as EC2, S3 and Deployment on multiple Databases. Good knowledge in Twitter Bootstrap and Responsive Design. Experienced with implementing distinctive features of Bootstrap and CSS media Queries for Responsive Web Design (RWD). Used Typescript in Angular 2.0 reformation, by using the System JS we convert the Typescript files to JavaScript files, as a default extension with the help of reference libraries. Optimizing the code of reusability using the Decorators and injecting the services to access those in any components by using the property called providers in Angular 2.0 Components. Worked on D3 Libraries and Having Good Knowledge on EXT.js and d3.js. Worked on Routes in Angular 2.0 creating the base route and extensions by using Router Config as an injectable URL path and customized component for each of the web page in Angular 2.0. Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup. Experience in using the JavaScript frameworks JQUERY, Angular.JS, React.JS, Node.JS and Twitter Bootstrap. Knowledge in developing user-facing features using React.js. Experience with popular React.js workflows such as redux and flux. Expertise in developing applications using Node.js and React.js for Asynchronous Module Definition (AMD) and Grunt as task manager. Experienced with JIRA, AGM for bug tracking and issue tracking and daily stand up to sync up with Team for current sprint status Implementation and Maintenance with extensive experience with agile methodologies. Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server. Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing. TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies: HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Angular 2.0, Angular 4.0, Angular 5.0, Node JS, EXT JS, D3 JS, React JS, JSON, AJAX, Grunt & Gulp. Testing Frameworks: Jasmine, Karma, Protractor for E2E.. Languages: C, C++, JavaScript, Advanced JS. IDE, HTML Editor: Sublime, Notepad++, Eclipse IDE, Adobe Dreamweaver, WebStorm, Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code. Application servers: Tomcat Server, WebSphere, WebLogic. Data Bases: Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, Mongo DB Operating Systems: Windows, Mac OS, Unix. Version Controls: SVN, CVS, GIT, TFS, VSTS. Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Losangeles, CA UI Developer Responsibilities: Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of website using HTML5, SASS, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular 4.0, Typescript, Node.js and JavaScript. Participated highly in requirements gathering, analysis, Conceptual Design and Details. Designed animated webpages by importing the @angular/animations which is the latest animation package in Angular 4.0. Created Angular 4.0 parent and child components in the application by using the angular-cli command ng g component. Extensively used @Ng Module to import different modules, to declare different components, to describe the providers and services that are used to develop the Angular 4.0 application. Designed animated pie charts in different webpages using the ngx-charts and D3 charts. Worked with the team to develop model form controls by adding the ngModel directive where ever needed in the application. Used Ng2Auto Complete for the development of user-friendly auto complete forms in the Angular 4.0 webpages. Developed different forms using Angular 4.0 forms by importing the FormsModule from @angular/forms and use the same in the imports array. Built the Angular 4.0 forms by importing Forms Module from @angular/core to application module. Imported many dependencies such as @swimlane/ngx-charts, angular2-wizard, angular2-ui-switch, @jaspero/ng2-confirmations, etc. for the development of the webpages. Involved in creating TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4.0. Assisted team to use the CSS preprocessor SASS and implemented the custom stylings for the entire application by creating style.scss as a common stylings file to the whole project. Extensively used Bootstrap and Angular 4.0 to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server. Imported Bootstrap modules such as Accordion, BsDropdown, Collapse, Modal, Progressbar, Tooltip and Popover for the user attractive Angular 4.0 application. Used Angular 4.0 to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA). Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and to implement one-way reactive data flow which reduces boilerplate and is easier to reason about than traditional data binding. Implemented modules using Handlebars for a more dynamic templating system with new features. Maintaining multiple forms with the SharePoint admin, building applications (both out of the box and custom features) and workflows with the SharePoint and building SharePoint master pages, layouts and themes. Used latest web technologies ECMA Script6, Babel, Web-Pack. Implemented back-end services using Node.js and Node modules and developed RESTful APIs with Node.js loopback framework. Worked with NPM commands and using Package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of Node.js applications. Developed Web API using Node.js and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances. Implemented test cases and performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma. Used Agile software management (Scrum) that included iterative application development, weekly Sprints, stand up meetings, Followed JIRA for tracking processes and streamlining Agile planning. Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for source code version control. Environment: Angular 4.0, D3.js, Reactjs, Handlebars, SharePoint, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Node.js, Jasmine, Karma, SASS, Bootstrap, jQuery, WebStorm, Visual Studio, TFS, Agile. Confidential, Denver, CO Angular js Developer Responsibilities: Built a model application with implementation of various new components Angular 2.0. Perfectly utilizing the Typing concepts in Typescript making the Angular to be an optimized fashion. Worked on Node.js Express Server to configure the server as a middleware for the Ng-Router. Created/Modified Angular 2.0 components, by using Typescript we create the bigger projects and converts to JS files to modify or creating new JS files Develop complex features and platform-based code artifacts utilizing Angular 2.0 platform. Instructing and mentoring teams of developers in uses of Angular 2.0 technologies to include, Node.js, Grunt, LESS and additional technologies to ensure current migration from Angular.js 1.5 to Angular 2.0. Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, LESS, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and Angular.js. Assisted the lead developer and or developers in Analysis, Design, Development, and Performance optimization of web application. Implement modules into Node.js to integrate with design and requirements. Experience in Node.js modules like Grunt and Bower. Developed entire server side using Node.js with Express. Designed and development of Web pages using HTML5, CSS3 including Ajax controls and JSON. Writing extensive JavaScript functions both in Angular.js and jQueryUIFramework. Used Angular.js as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using SASS, Bootstrap, and AngularJS. Used Angular.js to create custom directives for navigation bar, sidebar filters for patient data, strict filters for exact match search and other re-usable sections. Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result inUI. Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls. Developed Object Oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client-side validations using jQuery. Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed Junit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality. Added user validations and user permissions by using the Node.js and utilized for server hosting. Involved in Production Support and minor enhancements as per application requirements. Worked in Agile Methodology environment. Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Web Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Angular.js, Node.js, Protractor, Grunt & Gulp, YUI, Responsive Web Design, Twitter Bootstrap, jQueryUI, GWT, Dreamweaver, Agile. Confidential, Frisco, TX React Developer Responsibilities: Developed web pages using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX. Implemented aReact.js blog application withReact,experienced in working withReduxarchitecture. Worked on Packages like Web pack and BABEL as transpiler for converting into direct files. Created SPA for the End User providing route technologies with faster and responsive using React.js Framework. Experience in building Custer centric Single Page Applications. Designed and developed User friendly web-based interfaces using JSP, React.js, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and Custom Tags. Developed web pages using Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components, and used GRUNT & GULP as Task runners. Created some reusable components for designing interfaces using React.js. Developed various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library. Used JSX, Babel to browserify the data understandable to browser. Extensively used Web pack to remove code dependencies and to develop a SPA using React.js along with react-route. Worked on CSS pre-processor frameworks (SASS 3.4 & LESS 2.0) Implemented AJAX in web pages for accessing application data without refresh the whole pages for better user experience. Used React.js, JavaScript for validating client-side validations. Experience in usingReact.jsto build web components. Added user validations and user permissions by using the Node.js and utilized Node.js for server hosting. Extensively used Node.js on front end (used namespaces, closures and custom bindings). Implemented data-binding using Node.js for front-end development of a current web application. Performed troubleshooting on all mobile platforms both through telephony Avaya system, and with remote support, Supporting iOS, Android. Worked on tools like Eclipse and GIT repositories and Installed and configured GIT and synced with multiple GIT-Hub repositories. Worked in developing dynamic robust UI screens using CSS, HTML, React.js, JavaScript, Bootstrap and jQuery. UsedReact.jsto build web components such as signup form and rule form. Built reusable and customizable components for the new website usingReact.jsand React-Routes to create a single page web application: Headers, Categories Used CSS3 for styling and HTML5 for Templates in Ext JS. Environment: HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Grunt & Gulp, Apache Tomcat, SVN, Web Services, AJAX, CSS, Node.js, REST API, Jasmine, React.js, Redux, GIT, Agile. Confidential Front End UI Developer Responsibilities: Designed the Graphical User Interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery. Developed the Application as Single Page Application using AngularJS MVC Framework. Developed the Responsive Web Design using CSS Bootstrap. Configured GRUNT and GULP to compile SCSS (SASS) to CSS using GRUNT plugins Consumed RESTful web service for fetching JSON format data from web server. Used AJAX calls for data updates inUIalong with JSON data parsing. Used jQuery and AJAX to create attractive animations and smooth transitions for a better user experience and used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Extensively used jQuery for creating various widgets, data manipulation, data traversing, from validations, create the content on the fly depend on the user request, implementing AJAX features for the application. Developed various application functionalities such as search, pagination, filtering using MVVM JavaScript Framework Angular.js. Developed custom Angular.js proxy to send requests to client’s APIs, handling authentication and custom headers. Integrated Angular Fusion Charts reporting component for statistical information display. Involved in TDD for developing and performing test cases using Jasmine and Karma. Developed HTML based Web services in Java which lets the user to track a shipment, find the transit days for a shipment. Designed & developed web services, which capture the leads from various web sources, advertisements and update database using Java and JDBC. Invoked Web services to generate Java classes from XML schema. Implemented JQuery and Java Script to interact with DOM elements, handle events for an interface. Designed PDF, excel and print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure. Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views & Triggers and calling them from JavaScript using the Temp Net Framework. Written SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database. Developed front-end screens with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP's. Extensively did client-side validations using JavaScript and developed the required Servlets. Environment: Grunt & Gulp, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Jasmine, Karma, SCSS (SASS), Responsive Design, ECLIPSE, SQL server, MySQL, GIT, and MS Office. Confidential Junior Web Developer Responsibilities: Designed the Web application layout and forms usingHTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure. Handled all the client-side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation usingJQuery. Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework. Used jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms. Used Waterfall methodology as a Software Development Life Cycle and involved in requirement gathering, designing, coding, and testing. Created Mockups and Wireframes for the development of variations of a layout to maintain design consistency throughout the site. Used AJAX to refresh only certain section of the page and reduce the load on the web server Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using HTML, XHTML and CSS. Wrote code to fetch data from Web services usingJQuery, AJAX via JSONresponse and updating the HTML pages. Performed XML Transformations from value objects to XML and from XML to HTML data. Used Subversion (SVN) as User input validations done using JavaScript and developed use cases using UML. Designed and developed views, controller and model components implementing MVC Frameworks. Responsible for the process ofUIdesign for Internet sites and applications. Involved in implementing theUIto support all the major browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XHTML, DHTML, SVN, Apache, Windows XP/7. 