SUMMARY:  Over 5 years of experience in design, development, testing and implementation of various High transactional and distributed web applications using .NET Framework 3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5/4.6 . Extensive experience in Windows and Web application development utilizing ASP .NET (4.5.1/4.0/3.5/3.0 ), C#, VB.NET, ADO.NET, VB.NET, WCF, WPF, LINQ Ajax, Remoting, CSS, CSS3, HTML, HTML 5, SEO, JavaScript, LINQ, jQuery 1.1/2.2/3.1, Web API 1/2, RESTful, XAML, Knockout JS, Node JS, Angular JS 1.2/1.3/1.6/2 , Bootstrap, Web Forms, and Win Forms. Strong hands on programming, design, understanding and deep functional experience in creating, deploying and consuming of XML Web Services, WCF services, REST Services and Web API. Working experience in Agile methodology using Rally dev tool and Scrum methodology using scrum works pro tool. Experience in implementing MVC (5.0/4.0/3.0), MVVM frameworks by extensively utilizing Bridge, Singleton & Factory design patterns. Proficient in Implementing WCF Services and consuming using different Protocols and implementing features like Security, Debugging and Performance. Experience on Web API to create HTTP RESTful services to communicate wif UI objects using JSON. Proficient in Deploying and Publishing Web Sites and Web Services on Windows Server running IIS 6/ 7 /7.5. Deployed builds to Dev, QA using Docker container. Hands on experience in writing light weight Node.js express server and using technologies like Ajax. Hands on experience in Designing UI Web Applications using Front End Technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, and Bootstrap. Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, components, factory and service resources, routings and events. Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume RESTAPI's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2. Hands on Experience on Angular 2 technology for one complete project in rebasing the UI of the application using the techniques in Angular2. Good knowledge and working experience in Angular 4 Experience in building end to end web applications using MEAN stack wif Angular 4. Experience wif features of Angular 4 such as directives, dependency injection, modules and routing. Expertise in Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts in C# Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance and Polymorphism. C# Used Attributes, Delegates, Generics, Collections, Multithreading and Exception Handling. Good experience in developing backend components wif MySQL, Oracle 10g, DB2. Involvement in composing put away techniques, indexes, Functions, packages, views, stored procedures Database Triggers utilizing T - SQL. Migrated build from Jenkins to Azure. Hands-on Experience in developing apps using OData object model. Experience in implementing LINQ by using LINQ to Dataset and LINQ to SQL for converting source code data Experience in using Unit Test Frameworks (NUnit and MS Test) and Performed Test Driven Development (TDD). Had experience on working wif GitHub and Git Repositories. Worked in Agile, Scrum, and Test-Driven Development environment. Experienced wif source control tools like Tortoise SVN, GitBash, Git Extensions, Source Tree, Visual Studio. Visual Source and TFS Strong knowledge of web technologies like HTML, XHTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, JSON, JavaScript and jQuery. Design and develop Solutions using C#, ASP.NET Core, Web API, Microsoft Azure techniques. Experienced in working Microsoft Azure Services and Service Fabric(SDK) which are latest Cloud Services. Generated SDK documentation (swagger) for the services using wash buckler for better discoverability and interactive API service. Experience in creating interactive design deliverables such as Wireframes, Site maps, Process maps, Mockups, UI Specification, working prototypes, UX Design techniques and other artifacts to describe the intended user experience. Experience using configuration Management Tools such as Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual Source Safe (VSS), and Sub Version (SVN) for version control. Performed unit testing and integrated testing for fixing the bugs, writing test cases, test plans and generating test scripts. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Languages: C#, C++, ASP.NET (4.5.1/4.0/3.5/3.0 ), Java, ASP.NET MVC 5, HTML5, XML, XSLT, CSS, VB6, WINFORMS, UML,MVC Scripting Languages: Java Script, Angular 2.0, Angular 4.0, Angular.JS, Node JS, Kendo, Bootstrap, Backbone JS, jQuery AJAX, KnockoutJS Technologies: .NET 3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5/4.6 , WCF, WPF, HTML4/5, JavaScript, CSS2/3, Bootstrap, LESS/SASS, XML, XSLT, Xpath, XHtml, Ajax, Web Sockets, Json, Silverlight 3/4 Software: SOAP UI, Fiddler 2, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Hibernate, Microsoft Office suite, Visual Source Safe, HP Quality Center, Visual studio 2001, 2005, 2008, 2010, Toad, and DB Artisan for Sybase Web Servers: Internet Information Services (IIS) 5.0, 6.0,7.0 Design Tools: Microsoft Visio, Enterprise Architect Reports: SSRS, SSIS, Crystal Reports, Stimulsoft Reporting Database: SQL server 2000, 2005, 2008, 2012 MY SQL, Oracle, Sybase MS Access Version Control: GIT, Team Foundation Service, Subversion Tools: Nuget, Grunt, Bower, NodeJS, NPM, Yeoman, Fiddler, Postman, Jira, Bamboo, BitBucket, Visual Studio, Beyond Compare, Silverlight Spy, SoapUI, Sql Profiler, Webstorm, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Powerpoint PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, WI C# .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the entire Software development lifecycle process (SDLC). Developed the application using SCRUM Agile methodology. Developed applications using ASP.NET, MVC, Web API, Entity Framework, Kendo UI. Deploying, configuring and troubleshooting web applications on Azure cloud platform Database design and development using Microsoft Azure SQL databases, including Stored procedures, Views, and Triggers. Worked extensively on Ajax, Typescript, jQuery, JSON, AngularJS, XSLT, CSS, HTML5. Developed reports on SSRS on SQL Server (2000/2005/2008 ) and excellent in SSIS packages for integrating data. Good knowledge and skills about designing mobile applications according to the requirements. Developed database applications using C# wif SQL Server and Microsoft Access as the databases using ADO.NET Components. Build web applications based on ASP.NET technologies. Implemented Form based authentication in ASP.Net to authenticate users, worked on developing API for development using C++, C#, .Net. Wrote Business Logic code in C# code to read data from Database Stored Procedures. Worked on website from start to finish to give it a fresh look using HTML5/CSS3/ JavaScript using leveraging the Bootstrap framework and SQL backend. Creating applications using VB.NET and enhancing projects for .NET applications Implemented changes in coding and designs using knowledge of VB .NET. Tested user-friendly navigators by utilizing JavaScript and VB .NET Developed Webpages using ASP.Net, HTML, CSS, Client and server-side validations are done using C# and ASP.Net Validations. Involved in Build, Debug and deployment if the components. Involved in MVC architectural design pattern and used MVC in integration wif JavaScript framework. Implemented Azure Storage, Azure SQL, Azure Services and developing Azure Web role. Maintained high degree of competency across the Microsoft Application Platform focusing on .NET Framework, WCF, Windows Azure, and SQL Azure. Build Data Sync job on Windows Azure to synchronize data from SQL 2014 databases to SQL Azure. Environment: .NET/C# development, Java Script, JSON, REST, WCF, and MVC, Java Script & Java Script Razor, Ajax and Asynchronous Programming, REST Service Architecture, HTML, HTML5, CSS, SQL 2014, Azure, SSIS, SSRS. Confidential, Charleston, WV Senior .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the SDLC phase of requirement analysis, design, and development of the web-based intranet application tool using ASP.NET and C#. Worked on each layer of three-tier application developing user interface, business logic and database connectivity from business layer. Designed various features of User Interface for the forms after gathering requirements from technical support team and service team. Developed ASP pages using Angular2 along wif ASP.NET web form controls, ASP.NET Ajax, C# and jQuery, Asp.Net. Designed and developed Interactive Web forms using Web Controls. Designed web forms using Asp.Net, C#.Net and HTML. Used Validation Controls in ASP.NET MVC 4.0 and developed custom validation controls for validating views. Developed UI and pagination using Angular2 and Node.js. Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular2and typescript. Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, web pack and grunt. Worked Extensively wif Angular CLI for creating components, Services, pipes, Directives. Used AJAX for partial rendering of the Web Forms to improve performance by not having the whole page post back. Used ADO.Net for DML/DDL operations wif the SQL Server 2008. Developed site map path, master pages and themes to use throughout the application for consistent appearance, and navigation. Developed XML Web Services using C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, SOAP, XML and DISCO for exposing the functionalities of the enterprise business components at the Business Layer. Worked upon the dashboard for the project that contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using Kendo UI and jQuery UI Library. Designed and developed Web Forms using ASP.NET web parts, Silverlight for rich user interface. Used .Net Framework class library to build user interface that separated application logic from presentation code using code behind pages. Create a Virtual Network on Windows Azure to connect all the servers. Used various types of serialization mechanism for serializing custom classes and structures into required formats, such as SOAP for web services and XML. Developed various custom controls to have modular design in the Forms, one of them being Custom Grid View developed using new features of Grid View of .Net framework 4.0 to show the entire data collected. Developed custom control for login and used web service method for user authentication. Developed the user interface for back office support and worked collaboratively in Agile Scrum team on the design and development of application based on Angular2 framework using HTML5 and CSS3. Worked wif Angular.js for creating Single Page Applications. Design and develop the process using Capture flow designer. Designed and developed a brand-new Captiva Capture Imaging and Content Management application to satisfy all the business requirements. Used Entity Framework, Data Sets, and Data Readers for retrieving, querying, and storage. Worked on stored procedures, advanced queries, triggers, views, indexes for query optimization for the SQL Server databases. Used bootstrap to develop web form applications. Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2013, .Net Framework 4.0, C#, ASP.NET 4.0, Entity Framework 5.0, MS- Access, Angular (2/4), Angular CLI, Kendo UI, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS, Java Script, IIS (web server), web services, XML Web Services, TFS, XML, SQL Server 2008/2014. Confidential, Boston, MA  .Net Developer Responsibilities: Worked wif Product Manager to hash out requirements and halped bridge the gap between business requirements and technical implementation. Developed User Controls, used .NET web controls and improved the performance of the application by configuring the caching. UsedC#.NET to develop code for business and repository layer. Used Model View Controller (MVC) architectural Design patterns for the development of the product. Designed the application as a three-tier application wif UI in the presentation layer, Business logic in the middle layer and Database activity in the third layer. Deployment of Classic ASP and MVC .Net Applications using different application pools on web server as a single Intranet Application Worked wif Web API for building Restful applications on the .Net Framework. Created Views and Partial Views - UI and middle tier for various modules using C#, MVC (Razor View Engine), AJAX, jQuery, HTML5, CSS. Used technologies provided by the.NET frameworkincludingASP.NET, Entity framework, Web Services using SOAand data manipulation usingXML. Design of multiple Web APIs. Used WCF to implement the various services such as the QA Services. Windows presentation Foundation (WPF) is used for building applications for rendering user interfaces in windows-based applications. Designed and development of Win Forms using C#, Java Script for the user interface using the Code behind Class technique. Analyzed and exchanged administrator, designed, developed and maintained the web-based and automated accounting systems and various other applications using VB and SQL Server. Implemented ADO.Net data access techniques i.e. SQL Connection Objects, SQL Command Objects, Data Set Objects, Data Reader Objects and Data Adapter Objects using Data Grid and Data List in ADO.Net. Designed Application using HTML5 and CSS3 standards. Developed the user interface for back office support and worked collaboratively in agile scrum team on the design and development of application based MVC framework using Angular.js, HTML5 and CSS3. Worked wif Angular.js for creating Single Page Applications. Used SOAP and REST services for requesting information from endpoints. Used LINQ to aggregate data from repository layers. Prepared reports as per client requirement using SSRS. Practiced Agile Methodology to review progress of project in monthly sprints Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for version control. Created Stored Procedures PL/SQL statements, Functions to manipulate the databases. Worked wif Agile (SCRUM) methodologies. Environment: C#, .Net Core, WebAPI 2.0, Microsoft ASP.NET Framework4.5, Azure, SOA, Entity Framework 5.1, MVC 4.0/5.0, MVC, AJAX Control Toolkit, WCF, Web API, Bootstrap, Angular JS 1.6/2, TypeScript2.0/4.0,Durandal, Kendo UI, LINQ, C#, HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery, XAML, Visual Studio 2013, Microsoft SQL Server 2014, T-SQL, TFS, NUnit, NDepend, IIS 7.5, Devops, Jenkins, Docker, wireframes. Confidential .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the Analysis, System study and designing of the project. Developing a web based application from a window based application. Developing webpages using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and JSON. Experience in using SQL for storing data in the database. Good experience of debugging JavaScript, CSS3 and HTML code. Worked wif Product Manager to hash out requirements and halped bridge the gap between business requirements and technical implementation. Implemented web forms to build dynamic websites and powerful User Interface (UI) driven sites wif data access. Worked wif an Agile, Scrum methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work wif iterations Languages/frameworks utilized include HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery Library, jQuery Mobile, jQuery UI, .NET, ASP.NET, PHP, MVC .NET, MySQL, and SQL Lite. Created views and Partial Views - UI and middle tier for various modules using C#, MVC, AJAX, jQuery, HTML, CSS. Used RAZOR view engine to generate Views/ Pages. Created Forms that provide Asynchronous operations using AJAX Helper Class to provide Implemented C# advanced features like LINQ. Implemented Entity Framework, which enables to work wif relational data using domain specific objects. Worked on Code First approach for the MVC and Entity Framework for designing the models. Involved in developing Web Service and WCF using SOAP/HTTP to communicate wif legacy systems and deployed web services as per business requirements. Designed, developed Data contracts, Service contracts & Operation contracts for WCF Service. Implemented client-side validation using JavaScript as well as a set of validation server controls. Used ADO.NET objects such as Dataset and Data Adapter for consistent access to SQL data sources. Used LINQ to Entities for retrieving and filtering the data proficiently. Resolved QA bugs for front end and back end Involved in Extracting transformation and loading of data using SSIS to create packages Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for version control. Environment: Windows Server, .Net Framework, Visual Studio, C#. Net, MVC, Entity Framework, HTML, CSS, Web Services, jQuery, Bootstrap, LINQ, SSIS, TFS, XML, SQL Server, SOAP and Agile. 