SUMMARY Having 7+years of extensive experience on web based applications using PHP4 and PHP5,HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, DHTML technologies. Good working experience in designing and implementing various web applications in both LAMP(Linux, Apache, MYSQL,PHP) and WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL,PHP) Environments. Good Experience in PHP5x, MySQL, OOPS, Design Patterns, HTML5, CSS. Experienced in solving issues in web browsers, following the W3C standards to maintain the website with defect free. Expert understanding ofMagento's code structure, extension architecture, theming hierarchy and components. Expertise in authoring and extendingMagentoextensions. Working experience in customizingMagento's front - end components using layout XML, blocks, Pages and templates Responsible to stabilize the application using technologies likeAngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap. Experience in Drupal Themes developing Drupal custom modules, resolving Drupal configuration issues. Strong on Object Oriented Programming (OOP) Concepts using PHP 5, skilled at progressing from problem statement to well documented low-level code design. Extensive working experience with Content Management Tools such as Drupal, WordPress and Magento. Solid experience in developing Graphic User Interface (GUI) to display report data using JQuery in Cross-browser compatibility and Web application scaling. Making customizations to WordPress website, such as CSS/HTML5. Expertise in creating the pages using CSS webpage layouts and vast knowledge in usability and accessibility concepts. Experienced on Managing product development/Implementation using AWS cloud infrastructure Experienced in Responsive Web Design technology with or without framework like Bootstrap Hands on experience on NoSQL (MongoDB) databases, tuning, and optimization. Experience with PDO, database procedures and/or functions. Good Working knowledge of anyJavaScriptframework (YUI,jQuery,Prototype) Object-oriented programming. Good Working experience in DOJO toolkit modules like Core, DIJIT, DOM manipulation, event handlers. Experienced in Responsive Web Design technology with or without framework like Bootstrap. Good Knowledge on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture based Web Applications development. Knowledge of security issues and best practices for building web applications. Designs creative solutions using new Object Oriented Design to provide more efficient means to process work flow. Experience in creating custom modules and widgets in Drupal7 and migrating the modules toDrupal8. Extensive working experience with Content Management Tools such as Drupal6 and Drupal7, WordPress and Magento. Worked on GIT, Drush scripting,AcquiaCloud, Amazon EC2. Strong expertise in Web Application development using PHP with OOPs, CVS,SVN, MYSQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, and XML. Experience with creating DOJO Custom widgets and good understanding of DOJO widget lifecycle. Cross-browser front-end development skills (HTML5, CSS/JS/jQuery) Experience in UI applications like HTML, HTML5, JQuery, and AJAX, AngularJS and JavaScript. Strong HTML and CSS in multi-browser environments. Involved in the modern technologies includingAngular2 and Node js. Extensive working experience with Content Management Tools such as Drupal7 &Drupal8. Experience in web and mobile testing using emulators, mobile devices and browsers like Safari, Chrome, Firefox, IE and Opera. Experience in Relational MYSQL database design and maintenance. Thorough knowledge ofMagentofeature set and configuration. Experience in creating documentation of technical systems, training users in complex topics, and operational procedures. Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions. Excellent experience exposure with PHP development under Windows, Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, RedHat Linux, Fedora) Worked in MVC frameworks like ZEND, CakePHP, and CodeIgniter as well as e-commerce web environments such as CCK, Views, Drush, and agile Development. Experience with MYSQL, MSSQL or other RDBMS Good interpersonal skills and ability to work in a team environment. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming/Scripting Languages: PHP, C, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, PL/SQL. Framework and Tools: MVC framework, Zend, Symfony, Codeignitor, MS Office, EXT.js, Moodle. Content Management Systems: Drupal6, 7 & 8, Magento, WordPress, Code Igniter, Zend. Web Technologies: HTML 5, XHTML, XSLT, XML, JSP,CSS 3, JavaScript, JQuery, Knockout.js, bootstrap, Ajax, Angular JS, DOM, Servlets, CGI, JSP, Web Services (SOAP, REST API's), Social Networking API's, JSON, JDBC, Hibernate. Databases: MySQL4/5 PHP MYADMIN, Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008/R2/2012,MS Access, Postgre SQL, SQLite, MongoDB, Oracle 10g, DB2 Application/Web Servers: Apache Web Server, IBM Web sphere, ZEND server, LAMP Server, WAMP Server, XAMPP Server. Operating Systems: Linux Red Hat, Ubuntu, Unix, Windows 95/98/2000/XP/Vista/7/10. IDE Tools: Adobe Dreamweaver, In Design, Flash, ColdFusion, Photoshop, Eclipse, PHP Designer, Microsoft Visual Studio, Zend Studio, IBM Rational Application Developer. Modeling Tools: Rational Rose UML, MS Visio. Web Services: WSDL, XML, SOAP, UDDI, API, AWS. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Atlanta, GA Magento Developer Responsibilities: Develop and implement innovative and secure features and functionality for e-commerce with the Magento framework. Adapt all aspects of MySQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP), Magento Framework in MAMP environment. Develop GUI using PHP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript, jQuery for client side validations. Use the Model view controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications. Installation and customization of Magento 2.2 plugins such as weltpixel and magecomp. Design, built, test and implement stand-alone modules for Magento 2 including payment and shipping modules. Implement MySQL database installations and configurations. Troubleshoot, research and analyze issues to solve problems related to Magento and log errors. Apply knowledge in Magento and PHP to extend, enhance and build great user experiences. Provide daily technical support for e-commerce teams including troubleshooting and debugging issues. Work with project managers and business analysts on documenting processes related to current and new functionality across systems. Expertise in authoring and extendingMagentoextensions. Working experience in customizingMagento's front-end components using layout XML, blocks, Pages and templates. Work with cross functional teams to support customer requests. Write and modify scripts for systems monitoring, event detection and data integration. Assist in server deployment, upgrades and version release management. Use Git as a version control. Use of tools PhpStorm and sublime for development. Perform unit test and log the defects in JIRA defect tracking tool. Maintain system protocols by writing and updating procedures. Environment: PHP7, MySQL, Magento 2.2, apache, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, HTML, CSS, Linux, npm, Agile, MAMP, Git Confidential, NY  PHP/Magento Developer Responsibilities: Programming in PHP using object oriented and MVC design patterns (Laravel 5.4 ) Implemented UI screens for Plan-selection, Employee allocation, document upload, confirmation and thank you pages with HTML,CSS and BOOTSTRAP. Used Bootstrap andAngularUI Bootstrap for creating rich, Responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes and devices. Each screen has developed as per the wire frame which client has provided. Developed plan selection page for the users to choose different plans for the renewal process, and storing the information in the MYSQL database. Developed client side validations for each page with JavaScript and JQuery. Implemented MYSQL database tables for Plan-selection, document upload and confirmation. Involved in prepopulation data from the api’s and display in the front end screens. Implemented error logs for each screen. Developed the document upload process and sending document to the MACESS. Once we hit the MACESS server we will get the response ID and storing in MYSQL database. Implemented custom error messages for each screen. We are using GIT, Bitbucket as the version control and I have good command on the GIT usage. Created new forms for the users to add the new dependent or new spouse with client side validations. Involved in sending JSON to the PEGA. Worked to develop fully responsive front-end features usingAngularJS directives, controllers, factories, and services. Built a custom User Profile section directly integrated with Oracle that allowed users to track their Continuing Education credits in real time. Actively Done the unit testing before sending to the QA. Created reusable components inAngularJsbased on the requirements of CetsApp project using Custom Directives Filters, Services and Partials. Used npm commands to mix the CSS and JAVASCRIPT files in Laravel. Involved in the project meetings and making decisions for the critical stages. Attending daily scrum meetings for the status of the work. Version1 is a tool for tracking the work progress. Environment: PHP5, PHP7, MYSQL, Laravel, Magento, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.js, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Linux, npm, Agile, LAMP, Bitbucket. Confidential, NY  PHP/Magento Developer Responsibilities: Programming in PHP using object oriented and MVC design patterns (Zend, Codeigniter) DevelopedPHPbased server side API using Zend framework and implemented MVC architecture. Experience on media consulting with adobe Photoshop, macromedia freehand. Created front end interface using object oriented JavaScript and AJAX XHR with API The front end interface is able to interact with server sidePHPcode which is called by using REST API through AJAX. The JSON data sets returned are then rendered in appropriate format such as pdf, xls, csv and charts. Implementation of REST API services using MVC frameworks & from scratch. Working with Grunt & Gulp to ensure seamless & optimized builds for production. Working with bower, npm, and composer dependencies managers. ImplementedAngularpromises to handle asynchronous communication with our Rest API for various requirements. Amazon AWS: instances and volumes setup, installation of basic libraries, load balancers, S3 buckets, email services, etc. Database optimization, complex SQL queries, triggers and stored procedures implementation Database designing, development using stored procedures, views, joins etc and performance enhancement activities. Creation of Database Objects:Tables, Store Procedure, Views, Triggers, Index, and Function. Development of client-side solutions in AngularJS, HTML, CSS, jQuery stand-alone and/or integrated with REST API services. Worked onMagento2 to produce modules that can be easily and quickly rolled out and modified to better suit the wide range of needs. Worked onMagento2 EDI data interchange and consuming web services data in customMagentoextension. Worked on creating custom themes onMagento2.0 using html5, css3 and bootstrap. Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash. Applied certain audio and video streams to work sites for training purposes. Custom frontend development with PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and wrote PHP to interact with third party JSon services. Worked on Unix Server as the System was hosted on WAMP and XAMPP servers. Web page optimization and implementation of guidelines for fast page load times. Cross-browser compatibility & responsive design. Working on new features as per requirements (interactive maps, video & text chats, etc.). Working with Git & SVN version control. Implement pixel-perfect websites from wireframes Worked with symphony, design patterns like singleton pattern, registry pattern and model view control pattern in Zend framework. Parsing the JSON requests and responses. Creating reports from child data. Used Javascript, jQuery for user interactions in pages. MySQL databases for Backend using PHPMyAdmin. Environment: PHP5, MYSQL, JSON, Magento2 JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Linux, Vagrant,SOAP, XML, Any chart, DOM, Zend Framework, Adobe Photoshop, Agile, LAMP, Moodle. Confidential - White Plains, NY PHP Developer Responsibilities: Programming in PHP using object oriented and MVC design patterns (Laravel 4/5, Zend, Codeigniter, CakePHP) Implementation of RESTAPI services using MVC frameworks & from scratch Integration of external API services like social networks (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, FourSquare, Instagram, Google, Bing), other (Flickr, Vimeo, Shutterstock, etc.) Working with Grunt&Gulp to ensure seamless & optimized builds for production Working with bower, npm, and composer dependencies managers Amazon AWS: instances and volumes setup, installation of basic libraries, load balancers, S3 buckets, email services, etc. Database optimization, complex SQL queries, triggers and stored procedures implementation Database designing, development using stored procedures, views, joins etc and performance enhancement activities. Creation of Database Objects:Tables, Store Procedure, Views, Triggers, Index, and Function. Development of client-side solutions in AngularJS, HTML, CSS, jQuery stand-alone and/or integrated with REST API services; Web page optimization and implementation of guidelines for fast page load times; Cross-browser compatibility & responsive design; Working on new features as per requirements (interactive maps, video & text chats, etc.); Working with Git & SVN version control; Working with Vagrant, VirtualBox, and docker containers environment (dev, staging, and production). Environment: PHP5, LARAVEL, MySQL, HTML, JavaScript, Apache, CSS, Angular JS, Linux, JQuery, Bootstrap, Adobe Photoshop, Github, Bitbucket, SVN Confidential, Cincinnati,OH PHP Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for the analysis, design, development and support of application systems. Responsible for system analysis, design and development. Configured and worked in LAMP environment. Configured and installed PHPv5, apache and MYSQL on different environments. Installed and configured Subclipse. Configured and extensively used PHPUnit framework for unit testing the DAOs and modules and achieved the code coverage of 90 percent. Worked and developed in MVC architectural pattern. Designed and developed various modules like DAO generators and DAO base generators for security remediation project. Worked with PMS (Payment processing system) using SOAP web service for different finance based modules which take care of payments. Responsible for working on different security risks like XSS(Cross site scripting),SQL Injection etc; Used AJAX, CSS, JAVA SCRIPT, and JQUERY extensively in the entire application. Used HTML andalso XML for SOAP calls when developing PMS application in both Ashford and Rockies websites. Involved in Query Optimization by creating indexes, various joins in MSQL. Involved in fixingthe CSS for the browsersSafari, Chrome, Mozilla, Internet Explorer, and Opera. Followed agile Scrum methodology as a team with daily standup meetings for a better Project Planning. Worked with Subversion for versioning control. Environment: PHP v5, MySQL, HTML, XTML, CSS, AJAX, Apache Web Server, JavaScript, SVN. Confidential, Fort worth TX PHP Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for the analysis, design, development and support of application systems. Building the web pages from scratch using Drupal7 & PHP. Installed and configured Drupal on several environments Development, staging and testing (LAMP Stack). Worked with major PHP frameworks such as CodeIgniter, Zend, etc. Worked on PHP programming, including Object oriented, procedural, data structures and design patterns. Used various inbuilt PHP functions to write complex code and achieve various functionalities. Worked very closely with designing team to provide great user interface. Implemented Bootstrap in developing UI. Working on importing and exporting the data from text files to MYSQL database using PHP file functions. Manage and support existing Drupal websites. Created client side validation using technologies such as Angular.js and JavaScript. Used Angular.Js as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using Sass, LESS, Bootstrap, Angular.Js. Developed and enhanced Web interactions using JavaScript and frameworks like Jquery. Used AngularJS including authoring complex directives, services, controllers, and filters. Participated in designing the database in MySQL. Created Web back-end user interfaces to new and existing databases utilizing PHP and MySQL/Oracle databases. Tuned the SQL queries and stored procedures to improve performance on MYSQL. Implemented AJAX to enhance the capability of the website. Used PHP to create and consume web services (SOAP, XML-RPC) and implemented data integrations within the platform. Developed and certified SOAP based interfaces for multiple connectivity partners which automated the data entry process. Implemented SEO based Drupal modules optimizing the search function all over the site. Maintained and upgraded web portals according to the client's requirement. Took Part in Deployment of Code, testing and documentation. Used SVN to maintain current and historical versions of files such as source code and web pages. Fixed Bugs with the help of Jira (Bug Tracking System) Environment: PHP5, MYSQL, Bootstrap, Oracle, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MVC, Drupal7, Zend Studio, HTML5, CSS3, Linux, Adobe Photoshop, WSDL, XML, Agile, WAMP Confidential  Web Developer Responsibilities: Building the website from scratch in Wordpress. Daily content change migrations as per Business requirement, such as creating forms, updating the existing forms to accept improvised validations. Worked on wordpress in different types of search functionality. Worked on child theme and implemented design and customized as needed by the client. Proficient on modification of the template and plug-ins. Widget modification and customized widget as needed by the client. Wrote cross browser compatible based CSS codes for styling the pages and menu bars. Used Backup and Migrate for migration and staging process. Designed CSS sprite based pages and images for Global locations and UI effects. Build client websites with WordPress. Modify existing code as needed. Work with QA Department on a customized testing plan. UpdateWordpressinstallation and Plugins to latest stable versions. Wrote coding for multiple chained selects using Jquery select and JavaScript. Develop themes and plugins. Developed Jquery plugin for accordions and customized them meeting the business requirements. Implemented SEO based Wordpress plugins for optimizing the search function all over the site. Worked on cross functional team and handled project by myself only. Created widgets for JavaScript based calendar and other functionalities. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL, Ms-SQL, PHP, Dreamweaver, NetBeans, Wordpress. 