SUMMARY Around 8+ years of experience in developing professional web applications which includes front - end designing and hand coding with solid proficiency in usability, web and client / server applications. Experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML 4.0/5, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS 1.5, Angular 2/4, AJAX, JSON and XML. Experience in development approaches Front-end Model View Controller (MVC), event - driven applications using Object-Oriented Web applications, AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript. Experience in designing the interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, and converting findings into UI designs. Experience in various MVC java frame works like Backbone.js, Require.js, node.js, angular.js, Responsive design, Bootstrap. Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions. Sound Understanding and good Experience of using the various JavaScript concepts like Prototypes, Closures, and Object oriented features, Promises. Good experience in using the latest JavaScript framework AngularJS and worked with all its various concepts like services, custom directives, promises, factory and providers. Good experience in writing various custom directives in AngularJS for both DOM manipulation and for repeated use of markup code. Lead Sprints in UX Design, Front-end Development and Back-end Services. Expertise in developing various JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Knockout.js, Express.js, Require.js, Underscore.js, React.js/ Redux, Ext.JS, Responsive web design (RWD). Good noledge on creating components like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc. Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome. Familiar with popular browsers development and debugging tools/plugins for IE tester, Chrome Inspector, Firebug, Jasmine and Karma testing framework. Very good experience in Document Object Model (DOM) and also in client side applications using React JS and working noledge on Grunt. Experience with Firebug for Mozilla and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer. Expert in Rich Internet Applications (RIA) with advanced JavaScript Frameworks using MVC, jQuery, KnockoutJS. Used Node Package Manage (NPM) and Bower as package manager for installing backend and frontend dependencies. Backbone JS & Require JS to optimize in-browser use and to load the module and to improve the Speed. KnockoutJS used for the Form Validations attaching new behavior to DOM elements. Excellent experience in Restful Web services, Big Web service development and consumption. (JAX-RS and JAX-WS). Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar. Good Knowledge and understanding on NPM, BABEL, and Web pack. Experience with task runners like Grunt, Gulp to minify CSS/JavaScript. Involvement in using IDE's Dreamweaver, Notepad++, eclipse, Adobe Photoshop, Sublime Text& Web storm. Proficient in various version control systems GIT, Subversion. Exposure to Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment techniques. Experience in working with Application Servers including Apache Tomcat. Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD). Involved in Understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements. Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and experience with Agile and SCRUM. TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, Jasmine, XML, JSON, Media Queries, Responsive Web Design, CSS sprites, CSS grid. JavaScript Libraries: Angular Js, Node Js, React Js, RequireJs, Angular 2, AngularJS 1.5, Backbone Js, Knockout.js, express.js, Angular 4, TypeScript. Languages, Scripts: JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Typescript Frameworks: Bootstrap, Backbone JS, Angular JS Tools: SVN, GIT, Grunt, Gulp Web Services: RESTful, SOAP, XML Editors / IDE Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans, Adobe Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Visual studio, Angular CLI. Database: MySQL, PL/SQL(Oracle), Mongodb Web/Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, web logic. Operating System: MAC OS X, Windows, Unix/ Linux. Publishing Tools: Adobe PageMaker, MS Office, Microsoft Azure PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Arlington, VA UI Developer Responsibilities: Good experience in developing web applications using HTML5, LESS, SCSS, JavaScript, React JS, Bootstrap, JQuery and JSON and Spring MVC. Integrating the web application using SVN server control. Developed user interface with JavaScript, JQuery, JSP and AJAX and analyze the response of JSON in order to update the DOM. Used React-Router to change the application into single page application Used JavaScript for client-side validations, implemented User Interface in Model-View-Controller and created dynamic JSP pages. Working experience in building the dynamic web pages using the React JS framework. Experienced in bug tracking and project development process using JIRA. Used Bootstrap JavaScript plug-ins to implement Tooltips, Buttons, Alerts, and Tabs. Good experience in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug and Developer tools. Experience in designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation. Expert in client-side scripting language and server-side scripting languages like JavaScript, React JS. Used different JQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more perceptive. Involved in creating and using React JS components, Forms, Router, Events and Flux Concept. Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused over the web application. Fixed bugs in the production and carried out Unit Testing for the developed functionalities. Working experience on React JS Virtual DOM and React Views, rendering using components which contains custom HTML tags. Used React-bootstrap and SASS for handling responsiveness in the application and parse correct styles on prop changes. Experience in maintain the states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux. Developed user interface using React JS and implemented the Drag and Drop functionalities using React-Draggable. Experience on cross browser compatibility issues and fixed the bugs for different browsers. Developed interactive and dynamic web pages and coded for web page functionality, pop up screens and menus using the JavaScript. Used React JS to create controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server. Experience in developing the Single Page Applications (SPA) using React JS. Web application designing and development using HTML, CSS, JSP, React JS, and handle services in Spring MVC and Oracle Database. Involved in AGILE process, and daily Scrums to discuss the application development experience to deliver in time. Environment: HTML5, LESS, SCSS, JavaScript, JQuery, React JS, Bootstrap, Spring MVC, ORACLE DB, SVN, JIRA, JSP, JSON, AJAX and MY SQL. Confidential - Pittsburgh, PA Senior Web/UI Developer Responsibilities: Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, SASS/LESS, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, AngularJS 1.5/2, and Require.js. Experienced in developing solutions using UI web presentation skills. Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework and Created wireframes, graphical templates, and other graphical elements for various web based projects. As a team member, partnered with colleagues to build and test web applications. Designed and Developed user interface for context based task management system from usability wireframes, and prototypes to a fully functional responsive web application using Sketch, Invision. Good noledge in Angular 4 and managed multiple customized web applications using Angular 4. Designed and development of Web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery including Ajax controls and JSON. Responsible for the overall layout design, mockups and prototypes color scheme of the web site using HTML5, CSS3. Used HTML5 Application cache through which application is cached and can be accessible without internet connection. Lead Sprints in UX Design, Front-end Development and Back-end Services. Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Angular 2, Typescript and also additional frameworks like Bootstrap for responsive design, LESS for preprocessing are used. Good experience on the front-end technologies and worked on the UI architecture module using AngularJS 1.5. Mobile friendly Responsive Design using CSS/LESS Preprocessor and media queries. Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI. Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript validation controls. Reduced page load time by changing images to GIF and statically caching page, faster 3.389% TEMPthan before. Exposure to new features and issues addressed in Angular 2.0. Created Typescript controllers for the different pages in the views using Typescript.js. Created SPAs with multiple views using route services and developed/tested features in an AGILE environment using Angular 2 and Typescript. Implemented Angular 2 component router for navigation and also the services to connect the web application to back-end APIs. Created single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make dynamic by using Angular 2.0 framework and Node JS. Implemented Angular service calls using Angular Factory and also used Angular for making restful API calls and data binding. Developed the application on GWT (for creating Widgets, Panel, Event Listeners and other Components and deployed the application on Weblogics Server. Used Angular 2.0 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side. Extensively used Angular-cli to generate components, routes, services, pipes and to run tests. Designing and developing micro services, which is REST APIs orchestrating with backend systems to populate credit card customer's data at online login. Used AJAX module to handle RESTful calls to enable communication between view components and servers. Good experience in using the React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys and Animations. Developed a core component of Analytics using with Node.js micro services and consume them via AngularJS 1.5 services. Extensively used Grunt as an associate to Node JS to establish the connectivity between database and client. Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with design and requirements and also created Restful web services/ API's using Node.js. Produced visually appealing designs focused on usability, utility, UX. Used Node JS to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.) Synchronized Web Socket messages with React and Redux to reliably maintain real-time state across users. The concepts of cross-platform environment Node.js are successfully implemented on the Linux based Grunt (JavaScript task runner). Experience in handling the cross browser compatibility issues in Safari, Firefox and IE using the React JS code. Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices. Developed and integrated web application with MongoDB. Focused on Test Driven Development theirby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality. Followed Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology for developing test cases and unit testing using Jasmine test framework with the Karma test runner Experience in working with NoSQL Database like Mongo DB, Cassandra to manage extremely large data sets. Involved in Production Support and minor enhancements as per application requirements. Environment: HTML5, CSS3,CSS/LESS, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Typescript, Angular 2, NodeJS, ReactJS, AngularJS 1.5, MongoDB, YUI, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap, Micro services, GWT, Jasmine, Karma, Dreamweaver, Agile. Confidential - Central city, NE Front-end Developer with Node JS Responsibilities: Worked in Agile Methodology environment. Developed UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Knockout JS, Require JS, Backbone JS and AJAX. Designed and developed the user interfaces with various tools and implemented ASP.NET validation controls, Java Script, JQuery, CSS for server and client side validations respectively. Implemented the responsive Web designs using the SASS CSS preprocessor, CSS3 media queries, and Bootstrap. Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc. Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using HTML5, CSS3, LESS, SASS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Require JS, Jasmine, Karma, RESTFUL API Services and JSON. Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs. Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website that fit all users and devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone. KnockoutJS for creating Dynamic views and developing MVVM pattern for inducing two-way binding. Good experience on working the UI architecture module using AngularJS 1.5. Designed graphics, buttons, and logos for the website to enhance the application features for the user. Used AngularJS to create custom directives for navigation bar, sidebar filters for patient data, strict filters for exact match search and other re-usable sections. Used http with AngularJS interceptors to make sure the requests were valid and used UI-router to handle nested views and avoid page redirection. Leveraged two way data binding through scope in applications built on AngularJS and also implemented different validation control on the web-pages using AngularJS. In Angular JS developed efficient updating of HTML document when data changes and a SinglePageApplication. Created Menus and Drawer component by using Typescript. Responsible for implementing UI mockups, integrating third party JavaScript libraries, and handling/creating redux store data. Utilized Web Sockets with React to maintain consistent and real-time state across users. Used Backbone.js for fetching Data from the Server by giving URL to get JSON data for model and to populate model from the server. Captured the details and specifics of the website design via storyboards for prototyping. Debugged the website using Chrome Developer tool and manipulated the nodes using DOM functions. Used Grunt for JavaScript files concatenation and minify to improve performance in loading web pages. Worked with Jasmine and Mocha in testing and performed Unit testing and execution testing utilizing JUNIT. Build microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise. Tested pages for cross browser compatibility for Safari, Chrome, Firefox and IE. Created test suites using Jasmine, karma and worked on tools like NPM, Bower with respect to the requirements. Coordinated with the teams for QA / UAT and issue tracking and bug fixing. Used JIRA for the bug tracking and project management. Involved in AGILE process, two week Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application to deliver in time. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular.js, Typescript, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, Backbone.js, AngularJS 1.5, React.js, XML, JSON, Responsive design, Redux, Visual Studio, Grunt, Agile, Jira, Azure, IE 6,7, 8 9 10, Firefox, Chrome. Confidential - Manning, IA  Web application Developer Responsibilities: Worked on versioning tools like GIT and SVN. Worked in Agile Development and maintained good level of communication in team going through all phases of SDLC lifecycle. Developed Responsible Web Design (RWD) UI using HTML 5, CSS3 media queries, DOM, Ajax, JSON, Angular Js and Bootstrap. Developed the front-end for the Identity Guard member website in HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, and AngularJS, in a responsive grid layout using Angular UI framework based on Bootstrap. Embedded new Media Elements me.e., video and audio files using the HTML5 mark-ups and used HTML5 file API for uploading local files from the client-side. Implemented latest CSS3 features like creating various TEMPeffects, shading, 2D 3D animation, Shapes and Handling multimedia. Designed and developed web pages using CSS pre-processors such as LESS and SAAS. Worked with Twitter Bootstrap framework making use of grids, advance components like Navbars, Pagination, Alerts, Progress bars etc. Created Angular components like controllers, services, directives and forms to collect different user data and implemented form validation in Angular. Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using SASS, Bootstrap, and AngularJS. Using Angular JS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI. Developed Custom directives to be reused across different modules in the application Developed Web API using MVC framework for all business logic and exposed to the front-end interfaces. Gatheird data from API/web services via AJAX-JSON calls and updating the DOM within the result sets. Used JQuery to make RESTful API calls and Designed/documented REST APIs for collection and retrieval of high data. Used JSON for data exchange between client and server and also Ajax to reduce the network load and update only the certain components of the website. Used GRUNT for UI task runner and mastered in using the GRUNT commands for building and deploying the project. Used Jasmine framework with Karma to write tests cases and performed end2end testing using protractor. Used W3C Validator for testing and worked on Unit testing with Karma and Jasmine. Debugged the issues in firebug for Firefox, web developer tools in Chrome, Safari and IE 8, 9, 10 browsers. Create complex JIRA work flows including project workflows, screen schemes, permission schemes and notification schemes in JIRA. Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JSON, RESTFUL web service, Apache Tomcat, Karma, Jasmine, SASS. Confidential  UI Developer Responsibilities: Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built. Utilized HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, and AJAX to create a user login system that allowed customers to login. Revamped the existing HTML website and updated content to be stored on the database instead of hardcoded into each page. Developed the complete layout of the pages of websites using CSS for multiple browsers. Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the halp of and tags as per W3C standards. Used JavaScript, Bootstrap for validation and for developing modules on front-end. Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript API. Used AngularJS framework to extend the HTML5 template language. Created AngularJS controllers, services and used AngularJS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities. Created custom AngularJS filters to provide better search experience, Implemented AngularJS client-side validation forms using various controls and filters. Used AngularJS in creating multi-page view using templates &ng-route Utilized AngularJS inbuilt directives for implementation also implemented costumed directives for the one's that is not available. Implemented AJAX to multiple aspects of the website to improve functionality. Used JSON to get response from server to check functionality of the websites. Designed PDF, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure. Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome. Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved. Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ECLIPSE, JQuery, AngularJS, Backbone.js, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, MySQL, Pl/SQL, Notepad++.  Confidential UI Developer/ Designer Responsibilities: Fixed the browser compatibility issues in IE, Firefox and Chrome browsers. Code on Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure. Defined text alignment, size, borders and many other typographic characteristics. Used HTML, CSS and JavaScript to render the dynamic web pages (presentation layer) for the application. Used JQuery in controlling access to different pages of the applications. Developed JQuery custom widgets to make easy the enhancement of the web pages. Extensively used JQuery selectors in accessing various parts of the DOM. Used Ajax and JQuery to update the parts of the Policy review web pages. Implemented JavaScript promises functions as an alternative for callbacks. Implemented and maintained AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience. Worked on creating and consuming SOAP Web services for accessing data from other external services. Used JQuery event handling in UI pages’ handle validations. Created JQuery custom widgets like date picker etc. and other custom widgets. Involved in code review and deployment of the application on development, testing of production servers. Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, SQL, Web services using REST and SOAP, JSON, AJAX. 