SUMMARY Result - driven IT Professional with 9+ years of extensive experience in designing & developing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML5, HTML, XHTML XML CSS, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery and Meeting W3C standards. Proven track record in Graphic and User Experience, Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand-coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C-established web standards with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility and delivering final page templates, including optimized images. Good knowledge of latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular.js 2.0 &1.0x, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, JQuery, React.JS and Dojo toolkit. Experience with Responsive Web Design patterns and Bootstrap. Expertise in designing and developing User Experiences for Web Applications using Web Authoring tools such as Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Illustrator, and Adobe Flash. Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) Framework, JQuery, Angular.js 1.0 & 2.0, React.JS, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites. High-level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence. Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS. Skilled in architecting and automating teh build process for production, using task runners or scripts Proficient documenting teh code inline using JSDoc or other convention. Experience in developing both front end and back end applications using Java, J2EE, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3,JavaScript, Angular.js 1.0x, Angular.js 2.0, React JS, Spring MVC, Spring, Hibernate, Cloud Applications, Node JS, SAAS, RWD, DOM, Gulp, Python, jQuery, and Ajax. Good experience on various JavaScript Frameworks depending on teh use case (e.g. JQuery, React JS, Angular JS). Expert in working with cutting edge front-end technologies/ framework and libraries like JQuery, Prototype,(X)HTML, DHTML, OO JavaScript, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML/XSLT, AJAX. Proficient with creating Logos, Banners, Buttons, Icons and Images using Adobe Flash and Adobe Illustrator. Expert in resolving User Interface issues using various front end technologies such as HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular.js1.x, Angular.js 2.0and AJAX. Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup. Good experience in developing web Applications using Spring MVC, Struts framework implementing Action Controllers, Action Forms, Spring Validation Framework and Spring Tag Libraries. Experience in using Web Services like SOAP protocol in JAXWS and RESTFUL Web Services Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD). Ability to handle multiple tasks and to work independently as well as in a team, experienced in interacting with Business/Technology groups. TECHNICAL SKILLS UI Technologies: HTML, HTML5, XML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP, AJAX, DOM, DOJO, Core Java, GUI, Responsive Web design, JSON, Gulp, Grunt, SASS, LESS, Media queries, XML, GULP,GRUNT, SASS, LESS, Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, JQuery UI, Angular.js, Node.js, Angular 2, Typescript, Bootstrap, ReactJS IDE, HTML Editor: Web Storm, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash Professional + Action Script 2.0/3.0, Microsoft Publisher, Eclipse, Atom, Edit Plus Web/App server: Apache Tomcat 5.0.25, HTTP Web Server Database: ORACLE, SQL SERVER, MySQL Operating systems: Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP (Prof), Win 7, Win 8 Methodologies: Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Denver, CO Sr. UI Developer Responsibilities: Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular JS. Involved in teh requirement analysis, designing, development, testing and maintenance of application. Developed professional UI web application by using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript and JavaScript framework such as Angular 2.0. Responsible for creating sketch, wireframe prototype and visual mockups. Requirements gathering from Business and defining user stories specifications for teh system. Worked on JavaScript frameworks (node.js) to augment browser based applications. Responsible to create mobile applications using Angular.Js for web API and browser clients. Responsive web design so it is compatible with any mobile devices. Wrote many custom directives, services and filters in angular.js as per teh functional requirements. Established pages using CSS 3 to maintain teh uniformity of all teh screens throughout teh application in positioning of screen objects. Implemented teh frontend with Angular, Bootstrap for dynamic web interface Created UXdeliverables, including competitive website audits, interaction design, sitemaps, and wireframes. Worked with AJAX data consisting of JSON/XML/JSONP responses, parsing teh same and presenting on teh UI layer. Wrote Single Page Applications using RESTFUL web services with Angular 2.0 Developed mockups and prototypes using JavaScript, AJAX, HTML5 and CSS3. Developed teh application for responsive to different screen resolution using bootstrap and CSS3 media queries. Worked on resolving User Interface issues using various technologies such as HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular.js 1.x, Angular 2.0and AJAX. Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using framework like Angular.js2.0. Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript. Designed UI screens using CSS, Angular JS Framework and HTML. Involved in teh development of presentation layer and GUI framework using Angular JS and HTML. Worked on resolving User Interface issues using various front end technologies such as HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular.js 1.x, Angular 2.0and AJAX. Contributed as key resource of teh Angular 2 Framework Team in conversion of existing UI screens of teh application. Involved in implementing some of teh POC's and application components using web technologies like HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery and KJS AJAX libraries. Used Jasmineto perform unit testing of custom filters, custom directives and various parts of Angular JS application. Involved in rendering custom HTML tags & implemented client side Interface using React.js. Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js 2.0. Involved in development of commonly used Angular components across teams such as directives for grid, pagination, conditional validations. Built Single Page Applications(SPA), Responsive Web design, UI usingHTML5Grid Layouts, CSS3 Media queries. Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers. Involved in using GIT for version controlling and reviewing code. Developed application for different browsers and fixed bugs for browser compatibility. Used JavaScript as a scripting language for Node.JS. Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Node.js. Consumed REST web service and displayed teh data to user in screen as suggested in wireframes. Responsible for making responsive web pages using twitter bootstrap and media queries. Used CSS pre-processors (SASS and LESS). Worked with Grunt, as that is used to create UI builds and run UI tasks like compiling less files to generate a CSS file. Collaborated closely with groups in and outside of development team to achieve well-designed responsive design interface. Worked on Git Hub to maintain teh repository. Implemented in Agile development process on Software Development Life Cycle and done with effort estimations using Function points & 3p estimations. Involved in Unit Testing by using Karma & Jasmine, and also involved in writing test cases using Jasmine and Karma to ensure code coverage. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, AJAX, Responsive Web Design, Node.js, JQuery UI, JSON, Atom, Photoshop, Flax, JavaScript, JSP, SASS, LESS, Agile methodology, GIT, JBoss, Eclipse, Mac OS, UNIX Commands Confidential - Portland, OR Sr. Frontend / UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Requirement gathering phase in order to gather teh requirements from teh business users and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements. Developed teh front end of teh application using HTML5, DHTML,CSS3, SASS, JSP, JavaScript Applied advanced HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components. Created interactive websites and website features using JavaScript and JQuery. Used Angular.js and Node.js for developing single page web applications. Worked on Page level code using JavaScript with Angular.js framework along with JQUERY and other JavaScript libraries. Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js 2.0, React.js. Worked on GitHub to maintain teh repository. Used Node JS to develop teh back end components, connecting teh application with teh other web services. Built strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) Framework, JQuery, Angular.js 1.0 & 2.0, React.JS, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites. Created interactive prototypes using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript front end code from a combination of wireframes, visual designs and design standards. Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustrator for teh front-end development such as graphics and multimedia's. Involved in implementing some of teh POC's and application components using web technologies like HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, and React.js and KJS AJAX libraries. Responsible for creating teh screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards. Wrote application level code to interact with teh backend databases JQUERY, AJAX and JSON. Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex for implementing application and designing graphics and images. Applied JQuery scripts for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes. Worked upon teh dashboard for teh project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using JQUERY UI Library. Worked on Responsive web pages (RWD) using Bootstrap, Restful API web development and media queries. Designed and developed ofUIusing HTML/DHTML, CSS, Dojo, & JavaScript. Used AJAX for asynchronously exchanging small amount of data with teh server behind teh scenes and updating teh JSP page. Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to teh project server to fetch data on teh fly. Development of highly interactive multiplayer HTML5 / CSS3 / Canvas based games using Angular JS and JQuery with custom Grunt JS configurations for testing and final deployment. Involved in implementing data grid/tables using Bootstrap and Angular JS for front-end client facing of teh Single Page applications (SPA). Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer teh amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions. Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Create design documents when and as required Perform coding, debugging and testing. Responsible to manipulate HTML5, CSS3 in JQuery as well as making teh pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML. Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Node.js. Took advantage of MVC pattern of Angular JS framework to produce higher maintainability of teh code. Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery. Worked on JIRA to maintain and update teh task developed and deployed Action Classes and JSP for Dynamic HTML generation. Involved in writing test cases using Jasmine and Karma to ensure code coverage. Worked closely with business users and developers of team to resolve issues. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, Responsive Web Design, Angular.js, Angular 2, Typescript, Node.js, JQuery UI, JSON, React.js, Jasmine, karma, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flax, JavaScript, JSP, SASS, MVC Confidential - St. Louis, MO UI Developer Responsibilities: Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned. Used teh functionalities to write code in HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Angular.js, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap with MySQL database as teh backend. Teh project is built upon teh Single Page Application (SPA) criteria. Developed Web application for backend system using Angular.js with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques. For new website features wrote Angular.js controllers, views and services. Involved in developing a new business application to teh layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework. Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Node.js. Added dynamic functionality to teh application by implementing JQuery and NodeJS. Modularized front end CSS and JS code with SASS. Built a real-time mouse/click user analytics web service with Node.js Implemented Angular.js in creating animations based on CSS classes. Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Node.js and Ext.js. Developed JQuery code using an XML Http Request Adapter to send an AJAX request to teh server side code and also implemented a callback function to handle teh results. Worked on prototypes for Responsive Web design. Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested handling logic using JQuery event handlers and call back functions. Developed teh JQuery callback functions for implementing asynchronous communication using AJAX. Extensively used JQuery UI for screen design and development. Involved in Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 widgets/ libraries for complete UI controls. Designed user-friendly navigation for displaying various sections of data using JQuery. Created Dynamic Web Pages using Web Controls and developed forms using HTML5. Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques. Used Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex for implementing application and designing graphics and images. Used Content Management system (CMS) for teh dynamic configuration of teh header and footer of teh web application. Styling pages using CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces. Used CSS Blueprint to create grids and adopt cross browser interactive features and to make teh web pages more. Implemented XML parsing code for different application. Developed server side REST style web services and called them from angular controllers. Frequently met with teh project manager to review project goals and to create proposals for future developments, researching their fields for UI design. Used SVN for version control and JIRA for defect tracking and Hands on experience in Python for teh automation of some tasks. Worked with teh team of architects and back-end Developers to gather requirements and enhance teh application functionality and add new features. Environment: HTML5, CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Require.js,Ext.js,Node.js, Backbone.js, Responsive Web Design, AJAX, JQuery UI, JavaScript, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex, MVC, Rest Web Services, JSON, XML, SEO, MySQL Server, Eclipse and Windows Confidential - Fort Worth, TX Frontend/UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of teh application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development. Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, DHTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript. Responsible for creating teh screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards. Involved in extensive HTML5 coding. Developed Javautility classes for common application functionality like database access, error logging and configuration file Responsible for developing teh pages using JQuery, AJAX, and JSON to parse on data on teh frontend on teh fly. Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant. Implemented teh design of web pages and provided user roles using JSP, JSTL, HTML, AJAX Developed Clinical Trials and prescribing information modules using Ajax and JavaScript technologies like DOJO. Designed and Developed User Interactive (UI) of Web pages with teh halp of HTML5, HTML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX, AngularJS and JAVA. Implemented chained select plug-in for JQuery with JSON processing and callback feature, chain multiple selects with ease. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging. Implemented different validation control on teh web-pages using JavaScript. Involved in developing HTML5 and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on teh client side with in teh forms. Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to teh clients and teh management to review. Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on teh client side with in teh forms. Worked with teh QA team to fix teh bugs, test teh load, and performance checking. Responsible to track different versions of files using VSS. Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix teh bugs pertaining to various browsers. Environment: HTML 4.x, CSS2.x, JavaScript 1.8, JQUERY 1.3, AJAX, JSON, XML, Tomcat Apache Confidential - Minneapolis, MN Front End/UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in designing and implementing Web2.0 Rich UI for teh Self-service Application using JQuery AJAX framework and Widget based JavaScript programmed model. Followed teh Agile and Scrum development methodologies Rendered HTML from XML stream using XSLT as per teh business logic for different widgets. Developed screen functionality using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQUERY. Generated UI mock-ups from paper-and-pencil concepts to high-fidelity prototypes that convey teh interaction model using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Used JQuery core library functions for teh logical implementation part at client side for all teh application. Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery. Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on teh client side with in teh forms. Designed page - layouts using Dreamweaver and banner using Adobe Flash. Involved in developing teh Validations across teh application using JQuery Validator plug in. Participated in defect review meetings with teh team members using Bugzilla, Firebug, and Google’s element inspector. Involved in implementing teh UI to support all teh major browsers. Worked with partners and clients at every stage of implementation of teh integration, for instance to gather requirements, finalize analysis, review completed implementation, UAT and sign-off. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, XML, Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash, agile and Windows. Confidential UI Developer Responsibilities: Closely worked with business system analyst to understand teh requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built. Developed web pages and components using HTML and CSS and JavaScript. Created business classes and base objects. Utilized JavaScript and JQuery to improve overall design and UI of campaign websites. Worked alongside backend Java programmers to troubleshoot Java Script related issues with front-end connectivity. Extracted data in UI for different clients using JSON format. Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript. Implemented AJAX to speed up web application Used Web Developer, Firebug, and IE developer toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility. Participated in maintenance and production support. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Firebug, Windows 