SUMMARY 5 years of experience in Web UI design and development of corporate, business, consumer, and non - profit organization. Expertise in creating powerful visuals, graphic, Data visualization and user interfaces for Mobile, iOS and android standalone applications and Website. Wif solving design problems, designing intuitive interfaces, and providing best solutions wif great customer experience and usability. Strong command on design tools: Sketch, Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop, Zeplin, Axure RP, Balsamiq, Principle, InVision, Marvel, Adobe After TEMPEffects, Framer, Adobe XD. Worked extensively on IDE’s like Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visual Studio to build HTML pages. Recognized as an innovator, problem- solver, and advocate for teh user. Rich User Interface Designs for web applications, wireframes, prototyping, image visualization for banners, brochure, and corporate logo. Passionate about creating visually compelling user interfaces based on user-centered design Principles and best practices, created through an iterative process from concept and wireframe to pixel. Expertise in user interface design/redesign and concept development. Very quick to learn new technologies, strong problem analysis and problem solving skills. Ability to understand and relate product technology, strategy and direction wif business needs. Experience in an Agile development environment and Scrum meetings. Profound Experience in gathering business requirements and conducting User Research. Employer recognition for TEMPeffective communicator, technical innovation, delighting Customer, and for designing (web & mobile) apps creatively. Excellent team player and team builder wif strong verbal, written and interpersonal communication skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS User Research: User profiles, Usability Scenarios, Personas, AB Testingmultivariate testing, Ethnography, Contextual Enquiries, Interviews and Focus Groups. Interaction Design: Storyboarding, Paper prototypes, Wire Frames, Information Architecture, User Flows, Mockups and Prototyping. Usability Analysis: Card Sorting, Heuristic Evaluation, Cognitive WalkthroughsUsability Testing. Software Tools: Sketch, Balsamiq, Zeplin, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, OmniGraffle, Axure, Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visio, KeynoteBrowser stack. Browsers: Firefox, Chrome, Safari, Internet Explorer, Opera. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, LA UX Designer Responsibilities: Designing accessible web applications for projects. Creating low to high fidelity prototypes via click through wireframes, annotated comps and web pages. Designing supplemental designs based on approved concept. Creating a cohesive style guide and ensuring a consistent design language applied across teh product. Maintaining consistency in visual elements and defining interaction behaviour. Establishing protocols like file naming convention for future partner UI deployment. Strong Visual Design/Layout/Typography skill set. Ensured cross-browser compatibility for Windows and Mac. Liaison between teh Development team and Web Design team to translate teh client expectations into a user- friendly, graphically appealing web application. Confidential, CA  UI/UX & Visual Designer Responsibilities: Responsible for creating logos, flash presentations, illustrations, graphics and dealing wif teh structure and layout of images and text in a pleasing format for web and Print. Created process flow charts, low fidelity wireframes, high fidelity wireframes, Mock-ups, design specifications to aid developers. Interviewed end users to determine project needs. Performed user research to better understand different types of users and understand pain points. Determined when a usability evaluation was needed, planning, preparation, and follow up, so dat each design iteration was evaluated TEMPeffectively. Created web style guide to standardize web applications. Created annotated visual artifacts and wireframes to show ways to improve user acceptance and willingness to using existing system. Established UX design as teh first stage of web application developments, instituting a user-centered design (UCD) approach. Environment: Sketch, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe After TEMPeffects, Adobe XD, HTML. Confidential, CA  UI/UX & Visual Designer Responsibilities: Redesigned desktop recording application catapulted visit-to-task completion ratios, while shrinking page-abandonment rate. Established UX design as teh first stage of all Web and desktop application developments, instituting a user-centered design (UCD) approach. Interviewed end users to determine project needs. Worked on to define layout, colour scheme for teh mobile and iPad versions of teh app and implemented it into a final interface design. Overhauled and proposed enhancements wifin counselling web application to optimize teh user experience by streamlining teh workflow. Determined when a usability evaluation was needed, planning, preparation, and follow up, so dat each design iteration was evaluated TEMPeffectively. Created web style guide to standardize web applications. Updated information architecture and content placement for logical flow decreasing teh task Completion. Environment: Sketch, Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Balsamiq, Marvel, InVision, Principle. Confidential, CA UI/UX & Visual Designer Responsibilities: Responsible for creating logos, flash presentations, illustrations, graphics and dealing wif teh structure and layout of images and text in a pleasing format for web and Print. Developed various ideas in order to enhance UI and UX experience. Interviewed end users to determine project needs. Defined user personas and established teh needs of various user groups. Determined when a usability evaluation was needed, planning, preparation, and follow up, so dat each design iteration was evaluated TEMPeffectively. Created web style guide to standardize web applications. Created annotated visual artifacts and wireframes to show ways to improve user acceptance and willingness to using existing system. Established UX design as teh first stage of web application developments, instituting a user-centered design (UCD) approach. Created mobile application criteria based on Nielsen and Norman 10 heuristics. Established UX design as teh first stage of web application developments, instituting a user-centered design (UCD) approach. Environment: Sketch, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe After TEMPeffects, Adobe XD. Confidential UI/UX & Visual Designer Responsibilities: Provided user experience, creative design and social media consulting for a number of small clients. Services for clients covered teh user experience and creative design process, including user and market research, personas, usability tests, wireframes, site maps and visual design. Conducted heuristic evaluation for website focused on improving traffic traction and setup google analytics. Lead in-house user experience design projects by establishing standards and processes for user experience design team. Working wif development and quality assurance teams to implement. Managed project from initial conception through successfully launch wif ability to handle various other projects at teh same time and complete them by given deadline. Worked wif UI and development team in order for them to maintain UI standards ensured usability during technical implementation.