SUMMARY Over 7 Years of professional experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various client - server applications in Python. Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, Perl, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Jquery and Coffee Scripting. Excellent noledge on Python Collections and Multi-Threading. Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments Good experience of Web Services with protocols SOAP and REST. Good noledge on data migration from relational database to NoSQL. Good at using libraries for technical development like BeautifulSoup, Jasy, Pickle, PySide, Pandas dataframe, net-workx, and MySQL for database connectivity to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle. Solid understanding of MVT design patterns. Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Template architecture using Django and Flask web application frameworks. Good noledge in GUI frameworks - Jython, Pyjamas. Experience with Version Control, ideally GIT and SVN. Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on Devops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture. Performed automation tasks on variousDockercomponents likeDocker Hub, Docker Engine, Docker Machine, ComposeandDocker Registry. Dockerizedapplications by creating Docker images from Docker file. Good experience in using different kind of data bases like MySQL, Oracle. Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9g, 10g, 11g. Experience in writing SQL queries and Stored Procedures and implementation on different databases. Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing usingETLTools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards. Well versed in browser abstracting JavaScript libraries like jQuery, Angular.js, etc. Expertise in understanding complex codes and extending their functionality. Thorough noledge in various front end tools like HTML, JavaScript, XML, JQuery and AJAX. Experience in Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects. Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts. Knowledge of the software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies. Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing). Defining Automation Test Strategy, Test Approach and Test Planning for the Agile Sprints and releases. Experience in working with different operating systems Windows 98/NT/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, UNIX and Linux. Install and configuration of web hosting administration such as HTTP, FTP and SSH. Knowledge of networking (TCP/IP, FTP, DNS, DHCP levels). Managed DNS, Email and Web servers. TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Python, C, C++, .NET and PL/SQL. Markup Languages: HTML, JSON, XML. Scripting: JQuery, Java Script, AJAX, Shell scripting Frameworks: Django, Flask, Angular JS. Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS. Build Tools: Ant, Maven. Version Control Tools: SVN, GIT. Programming Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile (Scrum & Kanban Board). Operating Systems: Windows, Unix, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu). Databases: Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB. Deployment Tools: Amazon EC2, Heroku. IDE Tools: PyCharm, PyStudio, Jupyter. Reporting Tools: JIRA and Rally MS Office Tools: MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, San Jose, CA Application Developer Responsibilities: Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website. Involved in making the UI changes and also developing the new initiatives for the application. Developed web applications in Django Framework’s model view control (MVC) architecture. Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Wrote python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database. Used Python and Django to interface with the React UI and manage the storage and deletion of content. Involved in development of Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format. Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package. Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database. Developed ETL (Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading) scripts to extract the data from multiple source systems dat comprise databases like Oracle 12g, SQL Server 7.2, flat files to the Staging area, EDW and tan to the Data Marts. Dockerizedapplications by creating Docker images from Docker file. Developed Tableau visualizations and dashboards using Tableau Desktop. Developed Tableau workbooks from multiple data sources using Data Blending Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile). Built development environment with JIRA, BitBucket. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application. Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing noledge sharing Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands. Environment: Python, Django, JQuery, Tableau, MySQL, Oracle, Linux, HTML, CSS, AJAX, BITBUCKET, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Docker. Confidential, Columbus, Ohio Senior Python Developer Responsibilities: Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system. Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques. Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup. Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks. Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes. Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content. Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page. Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance. Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub. Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues. Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology. Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and proxy. Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets. Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team. Involved in presenting demos to the clients and also reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager. Involved in assigning the tasks to the development team. Involved in handling the developing team and mentoring the junior developers. Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend. Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system. Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests. Involved in deploying the code into Amazon Web Server using BOTO API. Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers. Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes. Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis. Environment: Python, Django, Java Script, Coffee Scripting, LESS, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux. Confidential, Phoenix, AZ Python Developer Responsibilities: Developed web applications in Django Framework’s model view control (MVC) architecture. Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes. Performed efficient delivery of code based on principals of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principals Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium. Python/Django based web application, Postgresql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services. Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed inPythonand Bash Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server(TFS). Tested and validated the custom scripts. Delivered automated solutions for science models Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls. Implemented configuration changes for data models. Maintained and updated existing automated solutions Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points, file system errors) Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them. Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed manyPythonbug fixes of the two main applications dat were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL. Extensively usedpythonmodules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling. Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features ofpythoncode using a web browser. Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents. Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side. Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Confidential Software Developer Responsibilities: Developed entire frontend and backend modules usingPythonon Django Web Framework. Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management. Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations. Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python. Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python. Used Django APIs for database access. Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files. Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info. Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents. Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects. Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code. Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings. Issues pertaining to Real time data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra. Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables. Environment: Python 2.x, Django 1.4, Java Script, Matplotlib, Plotly, HTML, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, Oracle, MySQL, Bootstrap, SOAP Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, SVN, Linux, Eclipse. 