SUMMARY UI/Web Developer wif over 8 years of professional experiences in Web Designing and User Interface Development using Web Technologies. Good Knowledge on Angular JS, Bootstrap, HTML 5, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, AJAX. Experience in designing Rich Internet Application (RIA’s) wif JQUERY, AJAX. Up to date Knowledge wif the latest industry trends in UI design and usability. Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML/HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, Angular JS, CSS/CSS3 and JavaScript, jQuery dat follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible. Expertise in using REST, XML/JSON and AJAX to link wif back - end applications. Expertise in designing Event Handling Models such as Listener and Dispatcher in OO JavaScript. Solid experience wif Responsive Web Design (RWD). Used Backbone.js and ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server. Strong experience wif Cross Browser Compatibility issues and Optimization for web, including CSS Sprites and best practices. Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications. Developed the administrative UI using Angular.js and Kendo UI. Designed Frontend wif in object-oriented JavaScript Framework. Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) wif JavaScript. Experience in developing web applications using MVC architecture. Well experienced in using version control systems subversion (SVN), Visual source Safe and team Foundation Server (TFS), GIT, Version One, JIRA, and Jenkins. Excellent experience in developing web pages complying wif Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards. Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience wif Agile Methodology. Experience working wif testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or safari web inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar. Expertise in analyzing the DOM Layout, Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar. Experience in creating test suites using JASMINE. Familiar wif Cross Browser Testing and Debugging. Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter wif strong attention to detail. Demonstrated ability to complete projects in deadline-oriented environments. Quick learner and proficient in solving the technical issues in the project. Experienced in working on different operating systems like Window NT/2000/XP, UNIX. Strong presentation, analytical, multitasking, decision making, problem solving and excellent inter-personal skills Extensively worked on methodologies such as Agile and Waterfall. Had an exposure on AWS working closely wif development teams to integrate their projects into the production AWS environment and ensure their ongoing support. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: JavaScript, PHP, C, C++.PLSQL. Web Development: HTML, HTML5, DHTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), CSS3SASS/LESS, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAXAngular JS, React JS, Bootstrap. JavaScript Technologies: Angular JS, Backbone JS, React JS, Twitter Bootstrap, Ember JS, Can JS. Tools: / IDEs: Notepad++, Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio 2010, Sublime EditorAdobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop. Databases: MS SQL Server, MySQL, NoSQL (Mongo DB) Web/Application Servers: WebSphere, WebLogic and Tomcat 5.x/6.x Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile. Version Control: Visual Source Safe, Clear Case, Subversion, Perforce, SVN, GIT Operating Systems: UNIX, LINUX, Windows2000/XP/2003. Software: Oracle, MS Office, Adobe Photoshop7, Ilustrator, Flash, Dreamweaver cs4. Other: SQL Developer, MySQL Workbench, Robomongo, Studio3T PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Sr. UI/UX Developer Confidential, Lincoln, NE Responsibilities: Work closely wif Project Managers, Business Analysts and stakeholders, wif respect to, but not limited to, requirements gathering, architecting, developing, and unit testing software solutions, before handing over the product to QA group. Develop technical aspects of the company’s strategy to ensure alignment wif its business goals Worked on responsive design and put forward a proposal of doing away wif device-specific apps and developing a single responsive website dat could be served to both desktop and mobile users. Involved in developing UI pages using HTML5, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, and AJAX. Built Web pages dat are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and ReactJS. Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using ReactJS framework and JavaScript in conjunction wif HTML5, CSS3 standards, wif front end UI team. Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using Angular JS and HTML. Used CSS pre-processors (SASS) Developed Search engine using JSP, presented the XML data in the web pages using JavaScript and jQuery. Used Content Management system (CMS) for the dynamic configuration of the header and footer of the web application. Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework. Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data wif server as a Single Page Application (SPA). Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms. Designed Frontend wif in object-oriented JavaScript Framework like ReactJS. Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions. Involved in writing and modifying procedures, Queries, views and triggers and calling them from JavaScript. Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring Framework for dependency injection and integrated wif Hibernate and JSF. Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries. Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and ReactJS. Maintained existing UI Applications and upgraded them using CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, React JS, JSON and HTML5. Used JavaScript for Client-Side validations. Used DOJO for Ajax Support and used JSON for DOM objects. Developed the UI screens using SFX, Jsps, JavaScript, JSTL and CSS. Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology. Environment: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JSP, XML, AngularJS, ReactJS, DHTML, JQuery, Ajax, DOM, JSON, Dreamweaver, Spring, Adobe Flash, SOAP, Web Services, Eclipse. UI Developer Confidential, Miami, FL Responsibilities: Worked on Design and implementation phases of developing web application using Scrum Agile methodology. Redesign Java/Flex application using front end technologies Angular JS, Bootstrap, JQuery and CSS3. Design and developed UI screens using Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3. Used Bootstrap for creating web pages and written cascading style sheets for user interface, created selector ids, classes and pseudo-classes using CSS3. Used Apache POI for export to excel sheet functionality. Used GIT for source code control. Fixing the bugs and coordinating wif testing team accordingly. Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective. Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, and CSS2/3 based on the W3C standards. Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient TEMPeffects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging. Involved in designing and implementing Web2.0 Rich UI for the Self-service Application using JQuery Ajax framework and Widget based JavaScript programmed model. Created Master Pages, CSS Styles Sheets and Integrated to Silver light and got approval from Business Stake holders. Extensively used CSS3 and Bootstrap for styling the HTML5 elements. Developed the administrative UI using Angular.js. Designed Frontend wif in object-oriented JavaScript Framework. Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc. Developed the custom data grids upon JQuery framework to deliver the business data. Developed HTML prototypes and UI deliverables, such as wireframes, screen mock-ups, and interface design. Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using jQuery UI Library. Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using Flash, CSS, Adobe and JavaScript. Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well. Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions. Used Ajax TEMPeffectively to create pagination and wif client-side events like quick search. Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server. Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery. Involved in JavaScript coding for validations and passing attributes from one screen to another. Created Mock-up designs and developed various functionalities wif JavaScript and jQuery. Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie. Worked wif the team of architects and back-end Developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular.js, Responsive Design, Bootstrap, Dom, XML, Firebug, DHTML, Adobe, Oracle, Windows. Web Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Prepared the project technical documentation in Wire frames. Developed mockups and prototypes using HTML and CSS3 Expertise in using Twitter Bootstrap Framework responsive design Design website and maintain the website content up to date. Excellent problem-solving skills and the ability to work independently. Experience creating using JavaScript and Flash animation using Adobe Flash 5.5 Dynamic FLASH applications Involved in write application level code to interact wif APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML. Experience using different JQuery and bootstrap plugins for the web pages. Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing. Develop the online chat interface for the anonymous communication between mentors and clients. Used Backbone.js for Fetching Data from the Server by giving URL to get JSON data for model and to populate model from the server. Used Backbone.js to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server. Re-designing/developing the main website to improve user experience and add new functionality. Worked on the website from start to finish to give it a new look using HTML5/CSS/JavaScript. Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5/HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript. Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards Responsible for creating the screens wif table-less designs meeting W3C standards. Involved in extensive HTML5 coding. Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects. Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements are lagging. Defined new validations through Angular.js for the form field validation implemented through HTML5 Designed CSS based page layouts dat are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant. Performing the different modules like login, search and download wif tracking. Did extensive JavaScript and JQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website. Further tasks include management of all MySQL database and all the required tables to store different survey information related to the site. Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, MS Access, Adobe Flash, MS Office, IE 6, 7, 8 9 10, Firefox, Chrome, MySQL, Bootstrap Web Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Did extensive JavaScript and JQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website. Working as a UI Developer for the single page application (SPA) developed using Angular 2 framework targeting all modern web browsers. Creating HTML Markups using responsive web design approach wif HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and Ajax. Developed REST architecture-based web services to facilitate communication between client and server. Using object-oriented programming concepts to develop UI components dat could be reused across the web application. Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application. Worked wif SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 and created databases, tables, views queries, sub queries, stored procedures and triggers on the database tables. Created Angular2 controllers, services and used Angular2 filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities. Developed custom directives to be reused across different modules in the application. CSS Media queries are used to develop single responsive application wif good user experience in all platforms like desktop, tablets and mobile phones. Experience in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance and extensive experience wif Agile. Successfully integrating front end code wif server side. Good experience on version control systems CVS, SVN. Analyzing cross browser, device specific issues and providing solutions wifin the timelines. Ensured all the deliverables wifin the timelines wif accuracy. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, CSS, Node.js, Grunt JS, GIT and JIRA. Jr. UI Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Gathered the business requirements to capture the user needs. Created Estimate Plan, LLD and HLD. Worked wif a team of front end developers to build UI design concepts and prototypes. Designed front-end applications, user interactive web pages in a professional manner wif using web technologies like HTML, XHTML and CSS. Redesigned and implemented complete website to meet web and industry standards. Developed CSS page layouts, styles and table less coding for efficient design. Heavily interacted wif the end users and stake holders for design validation. Evaluated, analyzed, and tested web interface to understand and enhance the overall usability of the designs. Tested Web Services using SOAPUI tool as a part of unit-testing. Developed User- Interface screens involving Asp.Net and JavaScript & XML DOM parser. Designed object interaction layer for the server-side components using Rational Rose. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DHTML, XML, XHTML, Dreamweaver, Flash, Visual Studio, JQuery, MySQL Environment: HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, DHTML, XML, XHTML, Dreamweaver, Flash, Visual Studio, MySQL. Software Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Followed Scrum/Agile methodology and participated in weekly Sprints, stand up meetings. Responsible for transforming designs mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery, JSP/JSON, XML and XSLT. Worked on various mobile frameworks like jQuery mobile. Responsible for designing mobile applications. Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML (HTML, CSS and JavaScript). Responsible for developing various static and dynamic modules which are displayed in different web pages according to the specifications. Developed and designed XML Schemas to transport and store data. XML was used to simplify data and allow for Platform Changes, as well as making data more available across the applications distributed platforms. Extensively used XSLT to transform XML documents to HTML. Wrote custom jQuery plugins and developed JavaScript functions to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX driven user interface. Worked on jQuery Light box for creating image and video galleries. Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using JavaScript. Embedded the flash content into the web pages using SW Object. Created Ajax calls to exchange (request / responses) information wif database. Developed social network services for user interaction using Ajax, JavaScript, CSS and DHTML. Used Subversion (SVN) as a repository tool and as a version control. Environment: HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, XSLT, XPATH, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, JSON, AJAX, DOM, Eclipse, Sub Version. 