SUMMARY Result - driven IT Professional wif 8+ years of rich experience in designing & developing Mobile Applications using iOS SDK and as Web Developer using HTML5, CSS, XML and its related technologies. 4+ years of strong expertise in iOS Mobile Applications Development for iPhone/iPad using iOS SDK, Swift, Objective-C and XCode. Strong noledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) wif strategically designing and implementing teh software, debugging, fixing and maintaining teh software Experience on various software development methodologies, Agile Software Development, PairedProgramming, Waterfall methodology and Test-driven Development approach. Proficient in creating and customizing different Multi Views like Table Views, Tab Bars, Navigation Bars and Collection Views and working wif its related Data Source and Delegate protocols methods. Hands on experience on Grand Central Dispatch (GCD) and NSOperationQueue to achieve multithreading, Closers, Extensions, Custom Protocols, Delegates, Notification Center, KVO. Experience on various persistent stores like Core Data Framework, querying using NSPredicate, UserDefaults, KeyChain and Plist in all iOS Native Applications. Highly skilled in Auto Layouts, Compact and Regular Size classes, various kind of Gestures, Timer and Core Animation. Proficient in developing various segues like Show, Show Detail, Popover, Model Segues, Alerts and Action Sheets. Expert in working on RESTful web services, NSURL Session, JSON Serialization, Multi-Threading and blocks, working wif teh Third-party SDK integrations such as Google maps, Twitter, Brain Tree API, PayPal API etc. Good exposure on various design patterns MVC, MVP, MVVM, Delegation, Target-action and Singleton Pattern. Good understanding of ARC for memory management of application. Experience in using version control software (Bitbucket and GitHub). Strong experience on Object Oriented Programming (OOPs) Concepts. Experience in developing error-free applications in a fast-paced work environment. Well organized, strong work ethics, willingness to work hard to achieve client expectations, excellent analytical and leadership skills wif teh ability to multi task and prioritize workload. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Swift 3.x/4.x, Objective C, C, Java 7, J2EE 6, CSS, JavaScript, XML, HTML Frameworks: Cocoa Touch, Core Foundation, UIKit, AV Foundation, Core Location, Core Data, Core Animation, Core Bluetooth, Notification Center, WebKit, XCTest Web Services: RESTful Web Services, JSON, XML Design Patterns: MVC, MVP, Singleton, Delegation, Protocols Designing Tools: HTML, CSS, JavaScript IDE/Tools: XCode, Eclipse, GIT, Jira Databases: Core Data Framework, Realm, MS-Access, MySQL Operating Systems: MAC OS, Windows, Linux, iPhone / iPad OS, Windows 7, XP PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Ann Arbor, MI Sr. iOS Developer Responsibilities: Developed teh application entirely on Swift and migrated through teh different versions of teh language. Designed views of teh app using Storyboard as well as programmatic approach. Implemented NSLayout Constraints, Stack views and custom views. Provided user login option using third-party library Firebase. Used Property Lists to allow teh user to grant location permissions. Incorporated Localization to allow teh app to configure to an additional language (Spanish). Used Cocoa Pods to integrate third party libraries such as Firebase and Alamofire into teh app. Used Alamofire to make network calls to retrieve data from teh backend servers. Designed and implemented custom Collection view cells and Table view cells. To comply wif teh Swift Coding Style, made use of Protocols and Extensions. Used Keychain wrapper to safely store teh user’s card details and address in teh personal profile. Worked on parsing teh JSON data from teh database using Encodable and Decodable protocols. Developed navigation between various views wif a combination of UINavigationController, Segues and UIGesture Recognizer. Created custom reusable cells for TableView to display a list of teh nearest store locations and menu options and used teh callout accessory in teh TableView to give a detailed description of teh selected store along wif teh map to teh store. Worked on building teh app in an MVC pattern. Tested teh end application for any relevant bugs to resolve memory management issues using XCode tools. Used Agile Methodologies and participated in Scrum and Standup meetings. Environment: XCode (9/8), Swift (4.x/3.x), iOS (11.x/10.x) iPhone Simulator, MVC, GitHub, UIKit, Networking, Agile, Scrum Confidential - Dallas, TX iOS Developer Responsibilities: Effectively followed AGILE practices like attending daily SCRUM meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings. Implemented Push Notifications on teh app, making teh user to receive notifications each time when their is a transaction from his account. Followed MVC design pattern to develop teh application. Developed login screen following teh designs provided which works on different screen sizes wif Touch ID included. Extensively worked wif URLSession to integrate data from web servers into teh app. Worked wif multi-threading frameworks like GCD and NSOperationQueue to ensure dat teh flow of user interface is never interrupted. Part of teh team dat worked on migrating teh code base from swift 2 to swift 3. Developed Side Menu by using SWRevealViewController. Developed ATM/Bank search wif ZIP code or using Location services and displayed in TableView. Displayed details of each result in separate screen. Implemented Core animation to display Deposited check images along wif flip animation. Utilized UINavigationController for transition from one ViewController to another. Used GIT for version control throughout teh project and used GitHub from to act as remote repository. Environment: XCode (7/7.1), Swift (2.x/3.x), iOS 9.x, Instruments, Git, iPhone/ iPad, Agile/Scrum, UIKit, MapKit. Confidential -West Chester, PA iOS Developer Responsibilities: Worked extensively wif Objective C and Cocoa frameworks. Worked on Web Service calls using JSON parsing. Worked wif Cocoa Touch Framework and Core Services Framework for development and maintenance. Created teh overall front-end UI design of teh app using UIKit framework primarily, including UITabBarController, UITableView and UICollectionView. Dynamically updated teh UITableView and UICollectionView wif JSON data. Used MVC design pattern, protocols and delegates to design teh application’s architecture. Used UINavigationController, segue and Delegate designed user interface. Worked wif GIT to checkout and update teh codebase changes. Environment: iOS(8.x/7.x), XCode 6 and later, Objective C, Cocoa, Cocoa Touch, Cocoa framework, HTML5, XML, JSON Confidential - Moorestown, NJ UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in planning, requirements, gathering, Design and Development of teh project and followed Agile Development Life Cycle Gatheird system requirements for teh application and worked wif teh business team to review teh requirements and went through teh Software Requirement Specification document and Architecture document. Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts Worked on reported incidents and done teh integrations of Angular JS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, and SASS. Developed teh HTML views using HTML5, SASS, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS. Developed custom directives in Angular JS for teh application independent components like sticky headers, custom created dropdowns, tables, checkboxes, radio buttons, notifications, date pickers etc. Followed MVC Structure to develop Application. Created popup forms using Bootstrap Modals, AngularJS Modals and AngularJS Controllers. Enhanced teh performance of search functionality by designing Custom AngularJS Filters. Used Jasmine framework for testingapplication dat makes testing easier to set up and run teh code. Created SQLQueries, Stored Procedures, User-Defined Functions and Triggers using Microsoft SQL Server 2012. Used GitHub as configuration management tool for code versioning. Confidential - Farmingdale, NJ UI, Web Developer Responsibilities: Participated in software requirement analysis. Designed Database tables, views, stored procedures, and functions according to teh business requirement from clients. Implemented teh web portal using PHP and JavaScript. Designed web templates, banners and advertisements using Photoshop, Dreamweaver and Flash. Carried out in-house technical support as needed. Worked wif Adobe flash for teh flash content on teh web portal. Validated teh website for Cross-Browser Compatibility. Used Agile methodology for teh development Confidential Web Developer Responsibilities: Effectively involved in requirement gathering, documentation and design & development of several projects of Confidential ’s clients. Developed web pages and components using HTML and CSS and JavaScript. Created business classes and base objects. Utilized JavaScript and JQuery to improve overall design and UI of campaign websites. Worked alongside backend Java programmers to troubleshoot Java Script related issues wif front-end connectivity. Extracted data in UI for different clients using JSON format. Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript. Implemented AJAX to speed up web application Used Web Developer, Firebug, and IE developer toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility. Participated in maintenance and production support. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Firebug 