SUMMARY Over 5+years of extensive experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML5, HTML, XHTML XML CSS, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, jQueryMeetingW3C standards. Proven track record in Graphic and User Experience Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers static prototypes into hand - coded HTML, specifically emphasizing accuracy and efficiency & adhering to W3C-established web standards with respect to maintaining cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility and delivering final page templates, including optimized images. Good noledge of latest version of object oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, EXTJS 4.0, and Require.js, Handlebars, Ember.js and Dojo toolkit. Developed single page applications using Angular 2, web pack and grunt. Experience in designing web applications employing Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques and Search Experience with Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap. Updated Angular 2 to Angular 4, doesn’t make much different but same teh latest version of teh Angular framework. Expert in creating Templates, Web Interfaces, Layouts, and Flow of Future Pages. Expertise in designing and developing User Experiences for Web Applications using Web Authoring tools such as Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Illustrator, and Adobe Flash. High level of expertise in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence. Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS. Expert in working with cutting edge front-end technologies/ framework and libraries like JQuery, Prototype, (X)HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML/XSLT, AJAX. Proficient with creating Logos, Banners, Buttons, Icons and Images using Adobe Flash and Adobe Illustrator. Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries (JQuery) and developing Rich Internet Applications RIA. Experienced in data driven-UI component where a single application serves as teh website for multiple customers. Good noledge of using JavaScript testing frameworks, Jasmine, Protractor andQUnit. Expertise in working with kendo to develop modern web applications and easily combine with pretty responsive apps. Skilled at analyzing and solving browser compatibility challenges and possesses ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS markup. Worked with Agile waterfall and scrum methodology. Experience in using Web Services like SOAP protocol in JAXWS and RESTFUL web services Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD). Proficient working noledge on web projects related to java development. Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing. Proficient in JAVA/J2EE design patterns like Model View Controller (MVC). Configured Karma and Jasmine for teh Frontend unit test coverage. Configured Karma and Jasmine for teh Frontend unit test coverage. Well versed with build tools like Gulp, Grunt, Webpack. Experienced in writing styles using CSS preprocessors like SASS,LESS Understands teh front end dependency managers and used tools like Bower TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Java, C, SQL, PL/SQL J2EE Web Services: SOAP, REST, WSDL, JAX-RS, JAX-RPC, JAXP, JAXB. Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5,CSS2/CSS3,DHTML,XML,PHP, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSONJava Script Frameworks: Angular JS, Angular 2, Angular 4, NodeJS,Ionic . Javascript Libraries: Bootstrap,ExpressJS,Backbone.JS,JQuery,ReactJS,Ext JS. Javascript Testing libries: Mocha,Chai,Sinon,Jasmine,Karma and Protractor. Client side build tools: npm, Bower, Grunt, Gulp, Jenkins. Frame Works: Struts, Hibernate, and Spring AOP, JSF. Database: HBase, Oracle11g/10g, DB2, MySQL, MongoDB Web and Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, WebLogic Design Patterns: Singleton, Front Controller, DAO, MVC, Factory Method Methodologies: SDLC, OOAD, Agile Operating Systems: Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8/,Mac OS X, Linux, Unix. Build Tools: Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Bamboo, Gradle. Tools: Junit, Eclipse, Adobe page maker,MS Office, Sublime Text, Rational Rose, Putty, Subversion, CVS, Visual Source Safe6.0, Clear Case, MS Visio PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, NY Front End/UI Developer Responsibilities: Developed CSS based page layouts dat are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant. Developed HTML views with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular JS. Used JQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes. Developed creative intuitive user interfaces dat address business and end-user needs, while considering teh technical, physical and temporal constraints of teh users. Involved in teh development of presentation layer and GUI framework using Angular JS and HTML. Built different modules, controllers, templates, custom filters and directives in Angular JS. Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript. Involved in rendering additional components with custom HTML tags using React.js Has worked on Angular2 components and Angular 4.0 and worked on POCs. Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX and Angular resources. Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js, React.js. Develop various screens for teh front end using ReactJS/Reduxand used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager). Responsible for making responsive web pages using twitter bootstrap and media queries. Making changes to teh existing web applications and creating new components using React.js. Developed teh Single Page Application (SPA) using ReactJS, Reduxand AngularJS for module ensuring SEO Solutions. Worked with Html5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular 2 to create an application. Used CSS pre-processors (SASS). Experience working withReduxfor maintaining teh consistency to run teh application in different environments (client, server, and native) which are easy to test. Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, teh Business and Data Access Layers and were Coded using C# also worked with agile methodology for Application Development Used Grunt for building teh project. Worked with agile technology. Involved in Developer Testing, Review and Trouble shooting. Developed UI tests with Protractor and Java tests in JUnit. Designed and Developed automation script using Selenium Web Driver in Eclipse. Handled response data from RESTFUL web services using XML, JSON to update UI Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems). Created GET/PUT request and response using RESTFUL web services. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Angular js4, Angular js2, knockout.js, React.js, Redux.js, Groovy, Grails, AJAX, Responsive Web Design, Node.js, LAMP, JQuery UI, JSON, Atom, Photoshop, Flax, JavaScript, JSP, SASS, LESS, Agile methodology, GIT, Eclipse and Windows. Confidential, KY Front End/ UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Requirement gathering phase in order to gather teh requirements from teh business users and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements. Developed teh front end of teh application using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JSP, JavaScript, Applied advanced HTML, JavaScript, andCSSto deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components. Created interactive websites and website features using JavaScriptand JQuery/ JQuery UI. Used Angular.js and Node.jsfor developing single page web applications. Wrote Page level code using JavaScriptwith Angular.jsframework along withJQUERY and otherJavaScript libraries. Spearheaded adoption ofResponsive Web design principals. Creating interactive prototypes using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScriptfront end code from a combination of wireframes, visual designs and design standards. Utilized Adobe Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver and Illustratorfor teh front-end development such as graphics and multimedia's. Converted existing websites to Responsive websites. UsedJasmineto perform unit testing of custom filters, custom directives and various parts of AngularJS application. Developed front-end view templates withNode.js. Responsible for creating teh screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards. Worked with Node.jsto give a structure with rich API over a RESTful JSON interface. Wrote application level code to interact with teh backend databases JQUERY, AJAX and JSON. ImplementedGrailsServices and controllers to perform actions. AppliedJQuery scriptsfor basic animation and end user screen customization purposes. Involved in rendering custom HTML tags using React.js. PowerShell scripting for management of Exchange Database DAG groups - Server reports and database backups and Microsoft System Center DPM backup management. Worked upon teh dashboard for teh project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components usingJQUERY UILibrary. Used JQuerymainly for adding several functionalities to teh application (calendar, tooltips, popover, hiding elements validation, making Ajax calls, etc... Used AJAX for asynchronously exchanging small amount of data with teh server behind teh scenes and updating teh JSP page. Used AJAX andJSON to make asynchronous calls to teh project server to fetch data on teh fly. Developed and deployed Action Classes andJSP for Dynamic HTML generation. Generated new and edited existing design with CSS to accommodate new changes in design and logic. Created web pages which are informative and yet very neat and interesting to look at. Responsible for design and development of teh web pages from mock- ups. Worked closely with business users and developers of team to resolve issues. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, Responsive Web Design, Jasmine, Grails, Angular.js, java,python, Node.js, React.js, JQuery UI, JSON, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flax, JavaScript, JSP, SASS and Windows. Confidential, Columbus, OH Front End/UI Developer Responsibilities: Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned. Used teh functionalities to write code inHTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Angular.js, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, and Bootstrap withMySQL database as teh backend. Teh project is build upon teh Single Page Application (SPA) criteria. Developed Web application for backend system using Angular.js with cutting edge HTML5andCSS3techniques. For new website features wrote Angular.js controllers, views and services. Involved in design and development using Java, J2EE, Web 2.0 technologies Involved in developing a new business application to teh layout using Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework. UsedBackbone.js andRequire.js to create Views to hook up models to teh DOM and synchronize data to/from server. Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript FrameworklikeNode.js and Ext.js. Developed JQuery code using an XMLHttp Request Adapter to send anAJAX request to teh server side code and also implemented a callback function to handle teh results. Worked on prototypes for Responsive Web design. ImplementedJavaScriptsource code and embedded nested handling logic usingJQuery event handlers and call back functions. Developed teh JQuery callback functions for implementing asynchronous communication using AJAX. Extensively used JQueryUI for screen design and development. Involved in Coding, styling, testing of reusableJavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 widgets/ libraries for complete UI controls. Designed user friendly navigation for displaying various sections of data using JQuery. Created Dynamic Web Pages using Web Controls and developed forms usingHTML5. Coded pages with best Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques. Styling pages using CSS3.0 and developed JavaScript for user interfaces. Used CSS Blueprint to create grids and adopt cross browser interactive features and to make teh web pages more. Implemented XML parsing code for different application. Developed server side REST style web services and called them from angular controllers. Frequently met with teh project manager to review project goals and to create proposals for future developments, researching their fields for UI design. Worked with teh team of architects and back-end Developers to gather requirements and enhance teh application functionality and add new features. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Require.js, Ext.js, Node.js, Backbone.js, Responsive Web Design, AJAX, JQuery UI, JavaScript, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Flex, MVC, Rest Web Services, JSON, XML, SEO, MySQL Server, Eclipse and Windows. Confidential Web Developer Responsibilities: Closely worked with business system analyst to understand teh requirements to ensure dat right set of UI modules been built. Developed web pages and components using HTML and CSS, C# and JavaScript. Created business classes and base objects. Utilized JavaScript and JQueryto improve overall design and UI of campaign websites. Worked alongside backend Java programmers to troubleshoot Java Script related issues with front-end connectivity. Extracted data in UI for different clients using JSON format. Implemented client-side validations usingJavaScript. Implemented AJAX to speed up web application Used Web Developer, Firebug, and IE developer toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility. Worked on detail design and coding. Developed teh interactive user interface using jQuery JavaScript library. Worked on developing GUI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript (jQuery). Worked on implementing web pages on teh website using Code Igniter framework. Developed Business logic layer by implementing Object Oriented Programming languages (OOPS) concepts abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism inC#. Collaborated with one team member in design, analysis, coding, testing, and website review. Utilized CSS, Ajax, JQuery, MySQL queries for website design and development. Worked with technologies such as JQuery and Ajax to make teh website more attractive and user friendly. Gatheird business requirements, prepared Software Requirement Specification (SRS) document. Created Visio charts for teh workflow architecture of teh system Used Team Studio and Build Manager tools to develop applications and promote teh new design to test environment. Developed Use cases spreadsheet based on SRS document for teh testing. Coordinated with teh business on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get teh approval from business on teh design changes Participated in maintenance and production support. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Firebugand Windows 