SUMMARY Over 8 years of experience as aData Visualization, Apache spark, Data Exploring, Statistical Analysis on Dataand Software Engineer usingPython. Have work experience wif various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm and sublime text Thorough understanding of Python 3.x/2.xbasic concepts likeLists, Strings, Indexing, Slicing, Tuples and Dictionaries. Familiar wif Python Object Oriented concepts like creating classes, constructors, overloading and modules. Familiar wif NumPy, Pandas and Matplotlib. Advanced topics likeiterators, generators, dynamic code execution, regular expressionsin Python. Involved wif problem definition,data exploration,data acquisition and visualization, evaluating and comparing metrics. Experience wif MYSQL. Experience in developing applications using socket programming(TCP/IP and UDP). Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django. Understanding of how to use network protocol analysis using a tool likeWireshark, Win dump. Good experience in working wif various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Spyder,Jupyter Notebook, Anacondaand UBUNTU. Developed internal auxiliary web apps usingHTML5framework Exposure to Agile methodology / SCRUM. Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually. Strong analytical and problem - solving skills, always striving for new noledge. A person wif multi-tasking and organizational skills and high ethical standards. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team. Effective communication and business analyst skills worked wif end users, architects and DBAs across the enterprise and worked in R&D team which helped wif sequencing the project activities by conducting the feasibility analysis and brain storming sessions. Experienced in developing Web Services wif python programming language. Very strong full life cycle application development experience Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages:  C, Java, Python 3.x/2.7/2.4 Framework:  Django Web framework, MVC Framework Versioning Tools:  Git, SVN, CVS Databases:  MySQL Operating Systems:  Windows, Mac, Linux IDE/Development Tools:  PyDev, Pyscripter, PyCharm, Python IDLE Bug Tracking Tools:  Jira and Bugzilla Integration Tools:  Jenkins and web-builder MS Office Tools:  Microsoft Word, Microsoft excel, Microsoft PowerPoint. Query Languages:  SQL, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Franklin lakes, NJ Python Developer Responsibilities: CreatedPythonand Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration and used Apache spark for Bigdata to process the speed. Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance and monitoring. Developed user interface using BOOTSTRAP UI and Angular JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application. Wrote Lambda functions inpythonfor AWS's Lambda, Kinesis and Elastic Search which invokespythonscripts to perform various transformations and analytics on large data sets in AMAZON EMR clusters. CreatedPythonand Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration. Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing. Developed entire frontend and backend modules usingPythonon Django Web Framework. Designed the front end of the application using HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and jQuery. Worked wif the team on Automation Of Metrics Aggregation. Developed RESTful services using Django. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records. Real time & batch processing using Spark. Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services. Developed and tested many features for dashboard usingPython, Java, Bootstrap, CSS. Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements. Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern wif the existing one. Environment: Python3.4,2.7, Spark, Java 1.7, Django 1.9/1.7, HTML5, web scrapping, CSS3, XML, JSON, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Automation Of Metrics Aggregation, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet, Postgre SQL, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo. Confidential - Minneapolis, MN Python Developer Responsibilities: Developed web-based applications usingPython, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery. Experience wif JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS) Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2. I have developed the web application wif my team by using the play frame work. Added support for Amazon AWS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, spark, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on PostgreSQL database. Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files. Worked in Agile and SCRUM methodologies wif high quality deliverables delivered on-time. Experience wif continuous integration and automation using Jenkins. Involved in Unit testing usingPythonUnit test framework. Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings. Designed Interface using Bootstrap framework. Tracking defects and resolving bugs using JIRA. Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar wif all of its commands. Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers anddevelopersto understand them as per their perspective Experience wif working on multiple environments like development, testing, production. Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player. Environment: Python, Django, Spark, PostgreSQL, Amazon EC2, HTML5/CSS3, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, JIRA. Confidential - Tampa, FL Python Developer Responsibilities: Designed Developed tools usingPython, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing wif supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met. Responsible for setting upPythonREST API framework using Django. Developed views and templates wifPythonand Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface. Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture. UsedPythonto write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export. Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers. Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizingPython, in order to build an interactive web-based solution. Thorough noledge in various front-end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, jQuery, Angular, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL. Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects. UsedPythonbased GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access. Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML. Environment: Python, Django, Go language, Shell Scripting, Spark, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX, NoSQL, MongoDB, MySQL, SOAP, REST, jQuery Confidential - Austin, TX Python Developer Responsibilities: Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings wif various business users Worked wif team ofdevelopersonPythonapplications for RISK management DevelopedPythonapplication for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting Worked onPythonOpen stack API's, usedPythonscripts to update content in the database and manipulate files Implemented machine learning schemes usingPythonlibraries sickie-learn and SciPy. Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web-based application in OOP concepts. Worked on severalpythonpackages like Matplotlib, Pillow, NumPy, sockets. Worked on ETL Processing which consists of data transformation, data sourcing and mapping, Conversion and loading. Worked on design and development of Unix Shell Scripting as a part of the ETL Process to automate the process of loading. Worked on ETL tasks like pulling, pushing data from and too various servers. Tested and evaluated results for inclusion into software product. Designed and deployed machine learning solutions inPythonto classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis using R Studio Automating Email Process, Downloading and uploading the files through Perl Scripting. Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application. Environment: Python, Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, HTML,Python2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, Cassandra Confidential - Louisville, KY Python Developer Responsibilities: Developed entire frontend and backend modules usingPythonon Django Web Framework. Worked on designing, coding and developing the application inPythonusing Django MVC. Experience in implementing and working on thepythoncode using shell scripting. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed manypythonbug fixes. Worked on integratingPythonwif Web development tools for developing Web Services inpythonusing XML, JSON. Worked on server-side applications wif Django usingpythonprogramming. Collaborated wifin a team using an agile development workflow and widely-accepted collaboration practices using Git. Working onpython's UNITTEST and PYTEST frameworks. Strong Experience wifpythonautomation in automating Rest API and UI automation using Selenium web driver usingPython. Analyzing business requirements, responsible for manually testing functionality and then automation usingpython. Experience using node.js for server-side scripting to create web pages. Worked on front end part using Reactjs to design the web pages. Testing Restful webservices wif JSON payload using POSTMAN and automating them usingpythonframework. Created dynamic web pages using node.js before the page is sent to user's web browser. Knowledge on SAS, regarding transfer of data between client systems and SSD's. As we have vast number of libraries in React, it made us easy to work and make reuse of components that are created only once. We used RBAC and ACL to define the business roles for the users to provide them wif the access by maintaining the security wif their application. Stored the data in an Apache Cassandra Cluster Used Impala to query the Hadoop data stored in HDFS. Used third party web service API's like google for User registration, App engine, for search and Custom search. Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching Hadoop Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts. UsedPython/ HTML / CSS to help the team implement dozens of new features in a massively scaled Google App Engine web application. Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed inpythonand Bash. Performed job functions using Spark API's in Scala for real time analysis and for fast querying purposes. Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs,Pythonand Scala. Designed and developed scalable Azure APIs using Flask web framework inPythonand Integrated wif Azure API Management, Logical Apps and other Azure services. Environment: Python, Django Framework, Azure APIs, Shell Scripting, Spark, ReactJS, Google APIs, SOAP, REST, Hadoop, RBAC, ACL, Pandas, NVMe, Docker, Postman, node.js, MySQL, Selenium, Scala, Flash, AWS, Windows, Unix Confidential Jr.Python Developer Responsibilities: Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system. This is a Customer feedback and complains management system. Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website. Coding and execution of scripts inPython/Unix/VB Development of Application using Java andPython Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using VUGen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting - web and web services Data set up using SQL/ORACLE/Teradata. Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web-based logics rather than correlation and parameterization. Running load/endurance tests using VUGen, ALM and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analyzing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc. Testing in Citrix protocol wif scripts and scenario Execution of batch jobs in Control M, Perfmon and other tools Scripting and validation of scripts through correlation, parameterization and web-based logic testing (Smoke test, Load test, Endurance) using Controller for a duration further analysis, checking response times, CPU utilizations, memory leaks of servers and other performance characteristics of the website through capturing Perfmon logs and creating PAPAL reports and creating test reports. Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Rewrite existingPython/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Wrotepythonscripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database. Generated property list for every application dynamically usingpython. Responsible for search engine optimization (SEO) to improve the visibility of the website Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development. Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application. Environment: Python2.7, C+, HP LOAD (VUGEN, Controller, etc.) Putty, SQL, Teradata, SoapUI, Control, Perfmon, Django Web Framework, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. 