SUMMARY 3 years of experience as UI/Web Developer in User Interface Development using mainstream Web Technologies such as HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, jQuery, BOOTSTRAP, AngularJS, Angular 2, XML, AJAX, JSON which meets W3C Web Standards. Extensive experience wif CSS and leveraging best practices, modifications of existing CSS files to enhance the user experience. Proficiency in Client Side designing and validations usingHTML,HTML5andJava Script. Hands on experience wif Front - End Frameworks, for designing crossing browser compatibility for mainstream browsers and portable devices. Solid working experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Waterfall, Agile and other common approaches. Experienced in debugging using Firebug, Chrome Element Inspectors and IE Tester or troubleshooting existing code. Experience on working wif CSS2/3Background, Media Queries, Animations, and Layouts, positioning, border, margin, padding, table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors including the Box model. Web application development for backend using Angular JS 2.0 wif cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques. Specialized in developing Web 2.0 Apps using core JQuery along wif AJAX/JavaScript. Experience in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency wif browsers, Version and Platform Independence. Experience in using various jQueryUIcontrols and corresponding Event handlers etc. Strong noledge of Front-End frameworks for designing crossing browser compatibility for mainstream browsers and portable devices. Hands on experience on Model View Controller framework such as an AngularJS framework for creating Single Page Application (SPA). Experience on manipulating IDE or tools such as Web storm, Visual Studio, Sublime, and Text. Excellent analytical, problem-solving and communication skills. Proactive and innovative team player proven to work under tight deadlines; capable of developing multiple projects and also can work efficiently as an individual. Develop innovative internal solutions to proactively meet the needs of our clients, communicate wif Project Managers, Software Engineers, and other Creative Team members throughout the planning meeting. TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies: HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, DOM. Scripting languages: JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2, React JS IDE & Tools: Eclipse IDE, Net beans, Visual Studio, Dream weaver, Notepad++, Edit plus. Debugging Tools: Firebug Languages: C, C++, Java Operating Systems: Windows, Mac OS X. Web Services: SOAP, Restful Web/App Servers: Apache Tomcat, HTTP Web Server, web logic Database: SQL Server, Oracle PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Napa, CA Front End Developer / UI Developer Responsibilities: As aUIDeveloper, assisting my team in developing two different Web-based applications and managed in developing of Account landing page, Account summary/overview and Login page. Responsible for building a new website for the Small fleet clients and for the maintenance of Online New Platform. Functionalities include writing code in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and JSP making use of Bootstrap framework. My Specialty is large scale CSS, focusing on reusability and modularity. Involved in designing the user experience interfaceUI/UX strategy,UIrequirements, converting findings into UI designs. Enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance which resulted in 40% code reduction, ease of upgrade, scalability, ease ofdeveloper spin up and enhanced performance. Worked on Angular 2.0 modules, components, dependency injection etc. Successfully migrated from legacy third party applications (for windows, IPad, blackberry) to bank's applications using HTML5 to maintain a singleUIfor all platforms migrate all application to Akamai data servers to increase speed and performance of the applications. Used Angular JS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data wif server using Bootstrap, AngularJS Involved in development converting the static HTML mark-ups to JSP's. Integrated the service call wifUIusing $http and $resources which are substitutes for AJAX in angular. Using GIT for version control. Used TypeScript to reduce the number of lines of traditional JavaScript files. Integration of TypeScript to the whole project. Used Angular.JS $http service to communicate wif Restful web services and JSON data. Implemented data visualization using Highcharts. Implemented unit testing for the front end using Jasmine and Karma Used popular Node.js frameworks like Express and Restify to mock a Restful API. Experience in using Ember.js for making Ajax calls (GET, POST) for triggering or fetching data from Restful API's provided by the backend team. Building reusable code usingPolymer.js and JavaScript libraries for future uses. Involved in up gradation and maintenance of company's website to the new layout using the Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework. Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags, made upgrades using Twitter Bootstrap model. Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along wif RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels. Developed web applications using Restful and SOAP protocols. Refine and iterate user experience by designing and implementing new modules and interfaces in a complex, responsive site. Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers. Developed the pages that are complaint to W3C and ADA section 508(c) standards. Involved in Agile/ SCRUM based approach toUIdevelopment. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular 2, Node JS,Bootstrap, XML, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, GIT. Confidential, Irvine, CA UI Developer Responsibilities: Contributed as key resource of the “Angular JSFramework Team” in conversion of existing (XMI) UI screens of the application toAngular JSbased UI. Involved in development of commonly used angular components across teams such as directives for grid, pagination, conditional validations etc. Involved in development/conversion of numerous existing UI screens toAngular JSfor the Admin and Task UI modules. Development of customAngularJS directives, which are used for DOM manipulation along wif HTML5 components. Designed UI screens using JSP,CSS, Angular JS Framework and HTML5. Responsible for the creation and execution of the Unit Test Cases using Testing for each coding assignment. Used the latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc. Involved in code reviews and mentoring the junior team members. Extensively used SOAP based web services. Responsible for Coding, Unit Testing and Functional Testing and Regression Testing of the systems. Participate in wireframe reviews wif UX team to understand the requirements. Convert the wireframes toHTML5/CSSthat are fluid in nature which will fit in varying resolutions for Mobile & Tablet Implemented applications using Java, J2EE, JSP, JSF, Servlets, JDBC, XML, HTML, XHTML and Java Script on Windows environments. Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM,CSS, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, and Ajax. Polymer.js for implementing Google charts and to create a production ready application. Implemented modular design and worked wif declarative bindings in Angular.JS. Created angular components like controllers, services, custom directives and forms to collect different user data and implemented form validation in Angular.JS. Implemented routing and developed business logic based on user selection using jQuery, Angular.JS. Implemented directives and scope values using Angular.JS for existing WebPages. Created XHTML Pages wifCSSand the Box Model Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework. Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms. Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively. Designed Pdf, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML,JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure. Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions. Involved in developing XUL, HTML, andJavaScriptfor client side presentation and, data validation on the client side wif in the forms.. Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles. Environment: HTML5,CSS,JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, JSP, Dreamweaver CS5, AJAX, JSON, ECLIPSE, MS Office and GIT. 