SUMMARY Around 6 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, RESTful API, C, JavaScript and SQL. Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, NetBeans and Geany. Proficient in developing applications using client side technologies like Html5, CSS3, JQuery andAngularJS. Migrate from Puppet to Ansible for configuration management. Integrated delivery (CI and CD process) Using Jenkins,Nexus, Yum and Chef. Written and developed scripts for automating tasks usingJenkinsand UNIX shell scripting. Good experience in documenting theETL Scriptingprocess flow for better maintenance and analyzing teh process flow. Designed and Developed complex mappings, reusable Transformations forETLusing Informatica Power Center 9. Administrate Continuous Integration services (Jenkins,NexusArtifactory and Repository). Good experience inEmbeddedLinux Platform, BuildingEmbeddedLinux, Building Cross Compiler tool - chain for various architectures (ARM), and building Root file system. Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities developed various Shell (bash, ksh) scripts to handle miscellaneous tasks. Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture. Implemented automated testing platforms and unit tests using Python, writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage. Extensively usedETL Scriptingto load data from multiple sources as flat files into as target database. Experience onOracle-Endeca Experience Manager, Operational and Search tuning, creating and maintaining Endeca page templates and cartridges. Also familiar wif DevOps concepts. Experience in client/server and distributed (multi-tier) OracleWeb Commerce, ATG BCC, CSC, ATG Endeca, Jboss, Weblogic & WebSphere applications, their development, maintenance and administration in different UNIX, Linux and Windows platforms. Extensive experience wif design & development ofembeddedsoftware for complex real-time and multi-tasking system Extensive experience wifAngularJS, creating custom directives, decorators, and services to interface wif both restful and legacy network services also DOM applications. Developed various Python scripts to generate reports, send FIX messages (FIX Simulator), SOAP requests, TCP/IP programming and multiprocessing jobs. Used UNIX Shell and ETLScriptingto invoke Sessions in teh workflow manager. Experience in Confidential Web Services (AWS) likeS3, EC2, Route 53, RDS, EBS, ELB, Dynamo DB, Auto-Scaling, AMI, IAM throughAWSConsole and API Integration wif Puppet Code. Developed teh required XML Schema documents and implemented teh framework for parsing XML documents Designed and DevelopedETLmappings using transformation logic for extracting teh data from various sources systems. Proven experience wif in Struts, Spring Framework (Core, Context, Web, MVC and DAO). Experience in Hibernate/iBatis frameworks. Experience in developing restful web services usingApacheCXF. Experience in project deployment using Heroku,Jenkinsand Confidential Web Services (AWS). Defined Heterogeneous Sources likeOracle,SQL Server,Flat Files and Extracted data for Data Warehouse. Develop ETL packages using SSIS to insert datasets to SQL server and generate project reports using SSRS and SQL. Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Building reports even dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool). Familiarity wif development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT). Integrated Docker into various tools likeAWS, Ansible, Chef, Puppet, Bamboo, Vagrant, Jenkins & VMware containers. Developed PL/SQL script for Unix jobs and for routine Maintenance jobs. Created PythonScript for Data Manipulations using NumPy and SciPy Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: C++, Java, Python, C#, PHP Scripting Languages: Shell Script, Python, R, MATLAB Databases: MySQL, Oracle, Mongodb, PostgreSQL, Redis Web Technologies: CSS, HTML5, JS, JQuery, REST, JSON, Django, Node, Angular, MVC, JSP, Servlets, .XML, AjaxOperating Systems Windows 8 & 10, GNU/LINUX, MAC O/S. Tools: & Servers RStudio, MATLAB, Jenkins, Maven, WebSphere, Tomcat. ETL: MapReduce, Hadoop, Mahout Machine Learning: Libraries Theano, Scikit- learn, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Pandas, XGBoost, NLP, PCA, SVD, Regression and Classification Algorithms Repositories: Git, BitBucket Cloud Management: Confidential Web Services SDLC: Agile, Waterfall, Scrum Network: TCP/IP, HTTPS/HTTP IDEs: Eclipse, PyCharm, Spyder, Sublime, Netbeans PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Senior Python Developer Confidential, Roseland, NJ Responsibilities: Worked wif HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, and JavaScript in developing web applications through Python 3.5. Design roles and groups for users and resources usingAWSIdentity Access Management (IAM) Used web applications development using Django/Python, Flask/Python, and, JQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application. Created a Python 3.5/Django based web application using Python 3.5 scripting and MySQL Workbench for teh database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of teh served pages. Designed and developed a robust metadata drivenETL Scripting framework. Develop Turbo actuator software features and modify existing code inembeddedC which include CAN Communication, Motor control Algorithm, Boot loader and event log as per teh requirements. Designed and Developed Web Services using RESTFul and SOAP protocols wifApacheCXF 2.7, JAX-RS/Jersey, JAX-WS, XML and JSON. Successfully migrated teh Django database from MySQL Workbench to PostgreSQL wif complete data integrity. Developed an autonomous continuous integration system by using Git, Gerrit,Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed inPythonand Bash. Developed scripts in python for Financial Data coming from SQL Developer based on teh requirements specified. Boarded and migrated test and staging use cases for applications toAWScloud wif public and private IP ranges to increase development productivity by reducing test-run times. Implement a continuous delivery pipeline wif Docker, Jenkins and GitHub,Nexus, Maven and AWS AMI's. LeveragedAngularJSresources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces. Deployed teh project onto theJenkinsserver, and organized teh configurations and versions of teh code using SVN version control system. Donescriptingin Winrunner applications. Created various data tables to execute batch files. Worked on Python Openstack API's, used Python scripts to update content in teh database and manipulate files. Used EC2 Container Service (ECS) to support Docker containers to easily run applications on a managed. Involved in development of software design documents, development of unit and integration test procedures and debugging ofembeddedand desktop applications. Utilized security groups, network ACLs, Internet Gateways, NAT instances and Route tables to ensure a secure zone for organizations inAWSpublic cloud. Implemented client side validation to avoid back and forward between server-client and provide better user experience usingAngularJS. Added support for Confidential AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and teh database into Confidential Cloud. Strong Data Querying/SQL and UNIX ShellScriptingskills. Possess excellent skills in Manual Testing and automated testing. Wrote and executed various MYSQL Workbench database queries from Python using Python 3.5-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from teh external interface in teh XML format. Writing SubQueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database. Teh code was written inembeddedC wif RTOS as operating system and also checked under standard checking tools like Code Check, MISRA. Successfully build complex web-based application using inOracleWeb Commerce, 9.X and 10.X, 11.X BCC, Endeca search, Infrastructure implementation. Used Test Driven Approach for developing teh application and implemented teh unit tests using Python 3.5 Unit Test framework called PyUnit. Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker,Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment. Developed expandable Ethernet connected power control device using an Atmel 32-bit microcontroller system, embedded Linux, and Python 3.5 scripting. Developed theembeddedC code for teh given microcontroller along wif teh peripherals. Developed ETL packages using SSIS to insert datasets to SQL server and generate project reports using SSRS and SQL. Created Database Schema for MySQL Database and involved in designing ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio. Extracted data from different systems into source. Mainly involved inETLdevelopment. Worked on Restful API's to access teh third party data for teh internal analysis and statistical representation of dat data. Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens and teh user entry validations. Senior Python Developer Confidential, Seattle, WA Responsibilities: Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout teh development and maintenance of teh website using teh HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery. Worked on server side applications wif Django using Python 3.5 programming. Automated teh existing scripts for performance calculations using machine library like Writing SubQueries, Stored Procedures for Insurance premium. Developedembeddedtools to provide system control and monitor functionality Used pandas API to put teh data as time series in tabular format for each time stamp, data manipulation and data retrieval. Experience wif continuous integration and automation usingJenkins. Developed and tested websites using MEAN (MongoDB, Express,AngularJS, Node.js) stack. Developed python code for different tasks, dependencies, SLA watcher and time sensor for each job for workflow management and automation using Airflow tool. Developed views and templates wif Python and Django view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface. Aided junior developers in bare-metal programming andembeddedsoftware design Used Jenkins for continuous integration and automated using Docker. Has worked onOracledata base for storing and retrieving teh application data Utilized standard Python modules such as CSV, itertools and pickle for development. Configured Topology Objects and Reverse-engineered database tables in Models. Created ODI agents and contexts for various environment. Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy their code using GitHub Jenkins,Nexusand Ansible Teh Batch process was developed using Java and SQL Stored Procedures. Used POC's wif teh Confluent Schema Registry, Rest Proxy, Kafka Connectors for Cassandra and HDFS. Utilized MEAN stack, REST design pattern, MVC framework and Single Page Applications framework based onAngularJS. Delivered automated solutions for science models and maintained & updated existing automated solutions. Used Maven to validate, compile and deploy teh files Played a key role in teh planning, testing, and implementing system enhancements and conversions. Aided junior developers in comprehendingembeddedsystems architecture and design. Demonstrated how hardware description language is used to design and debugembeddedcomponents for an FPGA-based system. Designed teh front end of teh application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Maintaining SQL server database and updating PHP script. Strong Data Querying/SQL and UNIXShellScriptingskills. Possess excellent skills in Manual Testing and automated testing. Implemented code to consume messages from streaming data platform (SDP) usingApacheKafka. DefinedAWSSecurity Groups which acted as virtual firewalls dat controlled teh traffic allowed to reach one or moreAWSEC2 instances. Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization / debug at teh deployment site. Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose. Python Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely wif teh architect in designing and modeling. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of teh menial tasks. Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters. Used Python and Django to interface wif teh JQuery UI and manage teh storage and deletion of content. Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash. Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker,Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment. Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Confidential AWS architecture. Created Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, Data Feeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting. Additional experience designing/coding/testingembeddeddisplay software using Microsoft MFC. Performed ETL operations to support teh data loads and transformations using SSIS and used SSRS for generating reports to end-users Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load teh data in database. Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python. Improved code for reuse and better performance by making TEMPeffective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base. Imported data from SQL Server and Excel to SAS datasets. Performed data manipulation by merging several data sets and extracted relevant information Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on web pages using teh data from PostgreSQL. Designed, implemented, operationalized High Availability SQL Server SSIS Ingestions and Data Integrations wif ERP. Automated application availability and functionality validation all teh environment using Rundeck,JenkinsandPython. Collaborated wif Product Management and User experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions. Implemented business logic, data exchange, XML processing and created graphics using Python And Django. Created Django dashboard wif custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard. Applied data deletions logic- same records are deleted at source and target tables to achieve data reconciliation. Worked on SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers. Involved in testing Unix Korn Shell wrappers to run variousETLScripts to load teh data into Target Database (Oracle) . Created test cases and executed test scripts using Quality Center. Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications. Run and monitor teh data load process daily weekly and monthly basis, Validation of data after completion of data load.