SUMMARY Software Developer over 8+ years of progressive experience and proven track record in design, development & maintenance of applications developed in various design patterns like, Client - server architecture, 2-tier/Multi-tier architecture, MVC architecture. Strong experience as Front-End Developer in developing web applications using JavaScript, DOM, jQuery, Backbone.js, ReactJS, Angular.js, Angular 2 and Ajax. Extensive SDLC experience including Requirement Analysis, Preparations of Technical Specifications Document, Design and Coding, Application Implementation, Unit testing and System Testing, Functional and Regression Testing and Production Support. Proficient wif Software development methodologies like Agile Methodologies. Having experience in using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS and having knowledge in creating templates using Handlebar JS. Proficient in designing and developing web front end, wif good understanding of Object Oriented Programming Concepts and component-based, object-oriented systems for building multi-tier architecture wif hands on development expertise in front end GUI Layer. Used Nodejs for adding dependencies to project. Wrote application level code to interact wif backend and consume the JSON by using RXJS Observables. Used NodeJS, ReactJS, and MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application (SPA). Implemented React router for building the single page application Used React JS controllers to update entity models and tasks database Designed and modified User Interfaces using CSS and Angular. Worked closely wif business-side clients to deliver attractive, easy-to-understand screens that appropriate reflected the company's fulfillment workflow. Actively involved in code review and code quality check process. Followed Agile Methodology for the complete life cycle of the project & Involve In daily stand up meetings. Experience in building SPA's using Angular framework. Used Angular-CLI for initializing and for project setup wif scaffolding features. Very Good Experience working in Angular4.x/2.x (data binding, Custom Directives, expressions, Single Page Applications). Knowledge in CSS preprocessors SASS and LESS. Committed code change into repository by using version control tool Git. Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to import and applications. Experience working wif a source control tools, Source tree (GIT hub). Good experience in developing web Applications using Spring MVC, Struts framework implementing Action Controllers, Action Forms, Spring Validation Framework and Spring Tag Libraries. Proficiency wif various design tools such as Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, Flash. Good work experience on RDBMS like Oracle and MySQL. Creating SQL statements & Subqueries. Worked wif No SQL databases like MongoDB and Cassandra. Design and development of web-based applications using different Web and application servers such as Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, JBoss Fuse JBoss and WebLogic. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: C, C++, Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL Web Technologies: JavaScript, Angular.js, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Spring (IOC and AOP), Hibernate, MDBs, Session Beans, DOJO, Java Mail, DTD, SCHEMA, XML, SAX, DOM, Backbone.js Web Services: Rest, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAXB, JAX-WS Databases: Cassandra, Mongo DB, Oracle and MySQL Distributed/ Middleware: JMS (Java Messaging Service), EJB Tools: /Software: Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, Net Beans, SQL, TOAD, SQL Developer, ClearCase, Subversion, JUnit, UML Application/Web Server: Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere and WebLogic Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS (HTTP+SSL), TELNET, FTP Other Tools & Design Patterns: ANT, Maven, MVC, Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Transfer Object, Singleton, Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Webster, NY Sr. UI Developer Responsibilities: Communicated wif the business partner and settled down the business requirements. Learnt various payroll terms used in the payroll to get a better understanding of how the payroll domain works. Studied about various holds that can be setup on a client and in what ways they are prioritized for a payroll. Actively participated in the grooming sessions to point out and task out the stories. Responsible for front-end UI design using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery plug in, etc. Developed desktop, mobile and responsive website using Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, jQuery. Used Typescript functionality for creating Angular 2 components. Built Angular 4/2 components, UI services to consume rest services using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2. Used React JS to make webpages rendering faster, instead of using ng-repeat in Angular JS used react to achieve the same. Performed Dependency Injection using Angular2 to build dynamic web pages. Harnessed web services wif the use of Angular2 observables and HTTP libraries. Also Used Angular 4 as framework to create a Single Page Application which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data wif server. Took automation testing training as part of my job role to create objects in UI to create automated test scripts. Used AngularJS controllers (JavaScript object) to control page data and Models to bind data in User Interface wif controller. Developed the review payroll screen which shows the total hours, total checks and total amount for that pay period which halps the client to review it before they submit the payroll. Refactored the delete functionality into a common component so everyone across the HTML teams can make use of it. Implemented Google Analytics to track and report website traffic. Developed automated test suites and engines. Used perfecto to test our application on several mobile devices. Used jasmine for AngularJS test cases. Used karma-test-runner and Jasmine for JavaScript Unit Testing. Using Google Analytics reports, optimized the page load time for the pages that had heavy traffic and improvised those pages using CSS. Developed the administrative UI using Angular.js and Node.js, Jasmine. Used React JS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope. Built ReactJS modules, controllers, pop up modals, and file up loader Created React JS directives, factories and services for developing single page web applications Experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters on Linux and Windows environment Used JavaScript to write CRUD mongo query to directly modify the data in server Used GitHub UI, Git bash to commit, changes to the repository for maintaining various versions of the Agile process Environment: HTML/HTML5, Java Script, AngularJS, Material Design, CSS3, Less, Flexbox, Google Analytics, Web Services, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Jasmine, NodeJS, Maven, Karma. Confidential -Timonium, MD Front End/ UI Developer Responsibilities: Communicated wif the business partner and settled down the business requirements. Responsible for front-end UI design using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery plug in, etc. Used different Bootstrap components such as Navigation Bar, Progression Bar and Dropdown Menus. Used AngularJS controllers (JavaScript object) to control page data and Models to bind data in User Interface wif controller. Created ECMAScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture. Made REST API calls using $http and $resource services wif AngularJS. Used Backbone.js and Require.js to create Views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data to/from server. Worked on resolving User Interface issues using various front-end technologies such as HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular.js and AJAX. Involved in write application level code to interact wif APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML Created Master Pages, CSS Styles Sheets and Integrated to Silver light and got approval from Business Stake holders. Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers. Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Produced content pages wif CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties. Coordination wif team in the daily routine works as a part of agile methodology, which includes code reviewing, validations and demos Used GitHub UI, Git bash to commit, changes to the repository for maintaining various versions of the Agile process. Environment: Apache Tomcat, Spring, Spring MVC, Java, HTML/HTML5, Java Script, AngularJS, Web Services, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Jasmine, NodeJS, D3JS, Maven Confidential, Minneapolis, MN Front End/ UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Requirement gathering phase to gather the requirements from the business users and dealing wif UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements. Developed the front end of the application using HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, SASS, JSP, JavaScript Applied advance HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components. Created interactive websites and website features using JavaScript and jQuery/ jQuery UI. Used Angular.js for developing single page web applications. Involved in the development of programming user interface design and front-end (HTML) for the Web application using HTML, Typescript & CSS to the requirements of the client. Followed Agile & Scrum Methodology for development of the product. Developed custom directives in AngularJS for the UI screens. Developed test cases using Node.js and AngularJS for the UI. Developed the Admin screens using JSP, JavaScript, and AngularJS. Extensively worked on HTML5/4, CSS3/2, JavaScript, jQuery, and AJAX. Understanding the requirements of the client and the flow of the application as well as the application Framework. Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using HTML5 and CSS3. Used AJAX and JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites. Tested the website on multiple browsers wif the old as well as latest release. Designed web applications from the conceptualization stage to implementation and maintenance. Checked cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome. Worked wif teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved. Environment: HTML5/4, CSS3/2, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, Knockout JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Agile, Git Confidential Java / UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Software Development Life Cycle. Involved in developing design specifications, website architecture and web application based on the provided functional and requirements and design layout. Developed single page responsive Web UI using HTML, Bootstrap, CSS, jQuery Involved in using XML for developing tool for user interface customization Developed web GUI involving HTML, JSP under MVC architecture Involved in code reviews and enhancement of application Developed various components of the application and unit test them Involved in developing the customer form data tables, stored procedures and triggers. Maintaining the customer support and customer data from database tables in Oracle database Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, and CSS Border. Involved in writing and modifying procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and called them from JavaScript using the local application framework. Implemented procedures for development of HTML5 and Java applications for mobile devices. Coordinated wif software engineering teams for interactions between mobile UI and back-end staff. Deployed Enterprise application using Web sphere Server Maintained multiple Enterprise applications in Production Environment of Web sphere Extensively used select, insert, update, delete, join and between queries while maintaining the database. DOM is used to parse the xml documents. Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles Environment: Java, J2EE, Custom tags, JSF, Spring, AJAX, Design Patterns, CVS, PL/SQL, XML, XSD, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, WebSphere, Oracle 10g, Windows. Confidential  Java Developer Responsibilities: Design, Development and unit testing of use cases Defects fixing and defects resolution. Responsible in Analysis and interface design, Architecture design and search module. Deployed the application on a single system and make it available on all the systems wifin the network, theirby reducing the maintenance cost of software. Contributed in writing and maintaining programming documentation of existing programs - both wifin the software and via user guides. Used Web services for standardized XML messaging system. Assisted wif the development of documentation, design, coding and scripting standards. Provides accurate time estimates relating to project development and assists in preparation of project management/status reporting. Implementing Runnable interface for multi-threading me do process all required paperwork according to established procedures. Used EJB to write reusable and portable server-side business logic for the J2EE platform me designed human-readable data using JSON Using Struts framework developing the web applications in Java EE, based on MVC-2 architecture. Answers telephone calls, faxes and e-mails in a professional and timely manner. Using REST iCapture the characteristics of the Web which made the Web successful. me perform responsibilities, as directed achieving desired results wifin expected time frames and wif a high degree of quality and professionalism. me maintain confidentiality wif regard to the information being processed, stored or accessed Demonstrates the behavioral and technical competencies necessary to effectively complete job responsibilities. Takes personal initiative for technical and professional development. Environment: Java, J2EE, MVC, EJB, JSON, Struts, XML, REST, Toad, WebLogic Application Server, Struts, Eclipse 