SUMMARY Over 5+ years of experience as an Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand - alone, client-server enterprise applications. Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation. Experienced in MVT frameworks like Flask/Django. Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, PyTables etc., for generating complex graphical data. Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, MVC3, Bootstrap, HTML and Angular.js. Very good experience wif cloud platforms like Amazon AWS. Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD. Experience in managing datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL. Experience in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views, Templates using CSS for whole site following Django MVT architecture. Experience implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django and MY-SQL. Good experience wif Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2. Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along wif data analytics and Excel data extracts. Experience wif version control systems such as Git and SVN. Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database. Developmental experience on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms. Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new knowledge. A person wif multi-tasking and organizational skills and high ethical standards. Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Python, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL Python Framework: Flask, Django, WebApp2 Python Libraries: Pandas, PyQT, Pyunit, NumPy, Matplotlib, SciPy, PyTables IDEs: PyCharm, Eclipse, JDeveloper, RAD Web Technologies: XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, MVC3, Bootstrap, RESTful, AJAX, Angular JS and Node.js. Web Services: SOAP, REST Methodologies: Agile, Scrum Databases: MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle, NOSQL Operating Systems: Window, UNIX, Linux PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Boston, MA Python Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment. Participated in teh complete SDLC process. Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python. Utilize PyUnit, thePythonunit test framework, for allPythonapplications. Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions. Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users. Wrote Python routines to log into teh websites and fetch data for selected options. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework. Developed views and templates wif Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface. Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML. Worked on several Python Packages like Matpoltlib, Pillow, Numpy, SQL Alchemy, and sockets. Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug teh Flash object and halp teh developer create a functional component. Used Jenkins for continuous integration services. Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Used teh Django Framework to develop teh application. Build all database mapping classes using Django models. Worked wif JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS). Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking Web services/API and parsing teh JSON response. Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework wif Angular.js and Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework. Set up rules and policies wif a Node.js/Python back end. Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows. Created a Git repository and added teh project to GitHub. Implemented unit testing using PyUnit, and tested several RESTful services using SOAP UI. Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles. Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading. Interfacing wif supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met. Environment: Python, Java, PyUnit, Pandas, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Django, Jenkins, Amazon Web Services (AWS), JSON, REST, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Git, JIRA, SQL, Agile, windows and Linux. Confidential, Brea, CA Python Developer Responsibilities: Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution. Developed views and templates wif Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface. Performed testing using Django’s Test Module. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL. Worked on Python Open stack API's. Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of teh menial tasks. Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework. Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries. Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web based solution. Used Python and Django to interface wif teh JQuery UI and manage teh storage and deletion of content. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL. Worked wif JSON based REST Web services. Designed and developed teh UI of teh website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles. Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture Used GitHub for version control. Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing. Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development. Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL and PL/SQL. Supported user groups by handling target-related software issues/service requests, identifying/fixing bugs. Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks. Environment: Python, Django, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, Open Stack API, Panda, ANT, Jenkins, Rake, JIRA, Agile, SQL, Windows. Confidential, Rochester, NY Python Developer Responsibilities: Participated in teh development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools. Updated site wif Python, Django and SQL. Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming. Developed views and templates wif Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface. Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis. Used Pandas package to retrieve and analyze data. Designed and developed teh UI of teh website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS andJavaScript. Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying teh test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser. Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles. Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records. Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML. Created a Git repository and added teh project to GitHub. Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL. Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures.Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in MySQL. Participated in multiple sprint cycles, addressing requirements for UI development. Participated in weekly release meetings wif Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated wif teh releases. Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Github, MySQL, Apache, Linux. Confidential Python Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing python, best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions. Involved in entire lifecycle of teh projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques. Debugging Software for Bugs. Used Python and Django to interface wif teh jQuery UI and manage teh storage and deletion of content. Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python. Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework wif CSS/HTML framework. Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser. Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution. Handled all teh client side validation using JavaScript. Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds. Wif using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking. Built development environment wif JIRA/Git. Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for teh project. Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from teh external interface in teh XML format. Involved in daily Scrum meetings and follows agile methodology. Environment: Python, Django, JQuery UI, JAVA, J2EE, HTML, CSS, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, Oracle, Linux and Windows. 