SUMMARY Over 6+ years of experience in Designing and Developing Web applications, Mobile Applications (Native/Hybrid), Web Analysis, Application Testing, UI development, Performance Tuning and Technical Support, Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Design. Experience on AGILE and SCRUM design methodologies. Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions in web browser and developing practice wif jQuery in variousUIwidgets. Experience in working wif CSS features like CSS sprites, CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text shadows, CSS box model, CSS tables and Pseudo classes. Experience in Profiling and Optimizing SPA (single page applications) by creating custom directives, controllers, modules, module optimization and http caching in Angular JS by using MVC frameworks. Experience creating Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST APIs using Component based architecture provided byAngular JS (v1.x)/Angular2/ Angular 4. Experience in implementing Node JS server - side code to interact wif MongoDB to store and retrieve data by using Mongoose drivers. Experience in designing User Interface wif Responsive Design and Bootstrap. Experienced in React JS and working wif React Flux architecture and Redux frameworks. Experience wif Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture, Model-View-View-Model (MVVM), design pattern and Test-Driven Development (TDD). Experience in creating Dynamic Wireframes, HTML Wireframes, Dynamic Screenshots and Sitemaps. Hands on experience wif CSS optimization using Pre-processers like SASS, LESS, Stylus. Good experience in development of software applications using Java/J2EE technologies like Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, Spring and UML design and working wif Apache Tomcat server. Expertise in working wif teh Mobile technologies like Android, IOS, Windows, Phone gap/ionic, Sencha, Cordova. Hands-on experience in creating Single Page Applications using MEAN Stack (MongoDB v3.2.6, v4.14.0, Angular 2/4, Node JS v4.4.4). Responsible for all client-sideUIValidation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using jQuery, jQueryUI. Proficient in designing asynchronous environment by using object modeling tool MongoDB and created database schema using Mongoose drivers. Good noledge on Cross browser compatibility issues wif various browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Opera and Google Chrome. Experience wif open sourced NOSQL and SQL databases like MongoDB, MySQL respectively, and enterprise level database like Oracle. Experienced in working wif debugging tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome, Safari web inspectors and IEDeveloperToolbar and Worked on cross browser compatibility issues. Good working experience in Testing Frameworks likeKarma, Jasmine, Mocha, Chai, Protractor, Nunit etc. Highly curious and passionate to learn about new front-end development technologies and adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering them wif a keen awareness of new industry developments. Possess excellent communication and Problem-Solving skills and teh ability to work as a team member, as well as independently. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OS Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall. Web technologies: HTML5, HTML, CSS3, XML, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Node JS, Angular JS, Typescript, Angular 2/4.0, React JS. Server-side Programming: JSP, JSF, Servlets, JSTL, JDBC, Web Services, SOAP, Restful. Css preprocessors: SASS, LESS, Stylus Mobile Technologies: Android, IOS, Windows, Phone Gap/Ionic, Sencha Databases: Oracle 10g, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, MySQL, NoSQL, Cassandra. Tools: / ides: Eclipse, Net Beans, Net Storm, Notepad++, MS Visio, Sublime Editor Configuration Tools: Ant, Maven, Gradle, Git, GitHub, CVS, SVN Bug tracking/Debugging: JIRA, Bugzilla, Firebug, Google chrome debugger, Safari web inspectors Other Tools: MEAN Stack(MongoDB v3.2.6, Angular 4.0, Node JS v4.4.4), MERN Stack(MongoDB, React JS, and Node JS) Testing Tools: Karma, Jasmine, Mocha, Protractor, Chai, NUnit. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Madison, WI UI Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for developing theUIpages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, jQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2, Angular 4, Node JS, AJAX. Developed Reactive Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular JS, Angular2/ Angular4 wif expertise in creating User Controls, Web Forms and performing client-side validations using JavaScript, jQuery and Angular JS. Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, LESS, Bootstrap and Angular JS. Added routing and developed factories, worked on root level variables and functions using Angular JS 5.0. Developed Angular5 and foundation-based UI Screens using HTML, CSS and Ionic framework. Involved in writing teh front-end code for teh application using Angular 4. Moved existing Angular JS controllers and services to Angular 4 components for more responsive and less dependency. Built Angular2.0 framework including MVC/MVVM architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters. Updated teh application wif new features of Angular 4 on some of teh new features of Angular 4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators, Router etc. Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2. Optimizing teh code of reusability using teh Decorators and injecting teh services to access those in any components by using teh property called providers in Angular2 Components. Designed and implemented Restful Web services for communicating between Angular2 and Spring Boot. Designed and implemented teh enhanced development platform by doing POC using frameworks likeAngular2, Node JS and NPM. Integrated wif teh back-end code (JSP) using jQuery, JSON and AJAX to get and post teh data to backend servers. Built a real-time stock application using teh stack Angular, Redis, Elasticsearch, Mongo. Worked wif CSS3 background, CSS3 Layouts, CSS3 positioning, CSS3 text, CSS3 border, CSS3 margin, CSS3 padding, Pseudo elements and CSS3 behaviors. Integrated teh Spring Boot API wif Angular2 to store logs and generated deployment services. Involved in writing application level code to interact wif APIs, Restful Web Services using AJAX, JSON. Developed user interface using AJAX to simplify teh complexities of teh application. Worked wif KendoUIcomprehensive framework for building modern web and apps wif HTML5 and JavaScript. Implemented MERN Stack (MongoDB, React JS, and Node JS) wif RESTful standards for Web Services. Successfully performed teh RESTful APIs Integration using XML and JSON. Consumed 3rd party web services in teh project using RESTful web services for authentications. Handled client-side validation using JavaScript and jQuery. Implemented jQuery data tables and binded it wif teh services using knockout. Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, REST, Restful, and UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers. Worked closely wif securing additional resource for teh team and worked in an Agile Environment. Developed UI and implemented for some plug-in using JavaScript, HTML, CSS and XML. Worked on Cross-browser Compatibility ofUIpages. Implemented for internet browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, and IE. Worked on Docker hub, creating Docker images and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations. UsedNoSQL database Cassandrafor proof of concept and having experience in create aStored Proceduresand having experience in Remote Procedure call. Worked on mongodb data model design based on application needs, and use Embedded data models and Normalized data models. Contributed code to teh development of mobile and responsive design and customized many features of teh application in iterative sprints environment using version control tools like Tortoise and, LESS scripts, Omniture tracking and JIRA for bug tracking. Writing Unit test cases using Jasmine, Karma for Angular 4 components and implemented Angular CLI wif production bundling. Environment: Windows, Linux,Angular 5, Angular 4, Angular 2, Angular JS, TypeScript, Node JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, jQuery, AJAX, Redis, Elasticsearch, MongoDB, LESS, JSP, Spring Boot, WSDL, SOAP, REST, MERN Stack, Restful, UDDI, NoSQL, Cassandra, MongoDB, SQL, Tortoise, JIRA, Jasmine, Karma. Confidential - Boston, MA UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in designing, developing and testing teh web application by using teh HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and React.JS Designed and developed teh Presentation layer usingAngular4andAngularMaterial in writing teh front-end code for teh application usingAngular4. Involved in designing teh CSS templates for use in all pages on teh website working wif CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, andtable. Developed user interface by using teh React JS, Flux for SPAdevelopment. Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept. Involved in building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages. Implemented teh Drag and Drop functionality using React-Dragabble Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on teh webpage. Worked on AngularJS for data-binding, and Node JS for back-end support wifAPIs. Used Node JS to create mock api server to bind mock data wif application and later migrated to backend api service. Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services. Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient. Worked wif JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node JS. Coded extensively in jQuery wif Bootstrap to make rich Internet web pages and created custom date picker on teh website. Used Angular JS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI. Using advanced level of JQUERY, DOM, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSSlayouts. Registration & Edit User Profile for all FTN sites. Extensively used Angular UI (Angular Bootstrap) for ng-grid and UI components. One service where number of customer orders, also teh states of customer selection and customer identification was needed to store, we used DynamoDB to store. Since teh record stored wasn’t so heavy and looked use of DynamoDB looked not so effective but still we used. Used two-way data binding features of Angular JS to implement Data binding to bind various server controls to teh data from database. Worked on MEAN stacks. Worked one-on-one wif client to develop layout, color scheme and layout and implemented it into a final interface design wif teh HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript. Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on teh client side wif in teh forms. Created Node JS EXPRESS Server combined wif Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side Angular JS to back-end MYSQL. Built and transitioned consumer facing products to MEAN stack technologies (Angular.JS, Express, Node.JS, MongoDB) as well as lead continued development of new internal products in Angular.JS and MongoDB Worked on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Apache Axis, web services which use SOAP, REST, and WSDL. Exposure to JAXB, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS & JAX-WS. Worked Web application development for backend system using AngularJS and Node.js wif cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques. Wrote test cases for automation testing using Selenium, developed teh application using Eclipse as IDE tool and JIRA for bug and issue tracking. Configured theDockerContainers and creatingDockersfiles for different environments. UsedJenkinsas teh integration tool and improvedscalabilityof applications oncross-platforms. Deployed teh application onApacheTomcat Server. Implementing Karma & jasmine for teh frontend (Angular JS) unit testing and Mocha & Chai for teh backend (Node JS). Creating and implementing interaction models, user flows, and user interface specifications Used JIRA, Confluence along wif GitHub for version control and defect control. Environment: Agile, Angular 4, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, REST API's, RWD UI, jQuery, Angular JS, Ajax, JSON, MVC, MEAN Stack, Node JS, Web Services, Bootstrap, Docker, MongoDB, DynamoDB, ApacheTomcat Server, Karma & jasmine, Mocha & Chai, JIRA, GitHub. Confidential -Timonium, MD UI Web Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for teh overall layout design, color scheme of teh web site using HTML, XHTML and CSS3 and responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows. Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features. Maintained teh business standards and teh requirements in EJB and deployed them on to Web-Logic Application Server. Teh concepts of cross-platform environment Node.js are successfully implemented on teh Linux based Grunt (JavaScript task runner). Created Node JS backend for creating RESTful Web Services using teh Express Framework and Mongoose to connect wif MongoDB. Developed theUIScreens using JSP, Struts, HTML, CSS and JavaScript and did teh client-side validation wif teh JavaScript. UsedNode JSfor building web applications wif client-server architecture, where both can initiate communication in two-way connections and allow them to exchange data. Involved in development environment using Node JS, NPM, Grunt, Bower, git and GitHub. Used NODE JS and written Node JS application in JavaScript and can be run wifin teh node.JS runtime. Coordinated wif teh business on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get teh approval from business on teh design changes. Watched project changes wif Grunt task runner and installed latest version of libraries wif NPM and Bower based on running in teh Node.js environment. Used AJAX for implementing part of teh functionality for Device Registration, Device Monitoring Information Modules. Applied Angular JS client-side Validation by using HTML5 attribute and Angular JS Form state and input state. Involved in end to end mobile application testing on various Android and IOS device. Worked on teh official mobile app of teh company using teh existing API wif teh help of IONIC framework. Responsible for deployment of teh port lets and application and, we have integrated our mobile application for teh app both android and IOS and other devices. Produced content pages wif CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties. Worked on all teh major NoSQL-skills like Aggregates, Views, Database objects, stored procedures Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database; automating data changes and reporting. Worked wif MongoDB and Mongoose, familiar wif MySQL, JDBC and Hibernate. Debugged teh website using Chrome Developer's tool and manipulated teh nodes using DOM functions. Worked wif Drupal to create and manage website. Performed unit testing using Jasmine and Karma along wif integration testing Chrome Inspector to fix bugs. Environment: Windows, Linux, Node JS, Android, IOS, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, HTML, Drupal, Ajax, Web Logic, Restful, MongoDB, JSP, Struts, Git, GitHub, NPM, Grunt, Bower, DOM, NoSQL, MongoDB, Jasmine, Karma. Confidential, Nashville - TN UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Agile story point methodologies and full software lifecycle. Designing, coding, testing, debugging and support. Designed teh front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS. Used Bootstrap to implement responsive design for web application, wif teh help of CSS Media Queries to maintain larger style sheet. Functional design and development of RIA (internet rich applications), perform unit testing, enhance application performance, and provide troubleshooting support using AJAX, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript, DHTML and XHTML for all major browsers. Involved in designing and coding teh various core components and UI Screens for teh Outbound Interface in teh Application using, React JS and Kendo UI. Utilized React-Redux libraries for state management to maintain consistency across different environments. Involved wif bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues wif React JS Plugin and Chrome Developer tools. Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap, custom media queries, wif brand appropriate styles. Analyzed theReact JS server structure in legacy project, then mimicked theREST serviceby using JavaJAX-WSAPI and did teh corresponding configurations. Used Fiddler and Bata rang to debug and keep tracking ofAngular JSand Web API performance. Designed and developed teh web-tier using HTML, JSP’s, Servlets, Struts and Tiles framework. Integrated teh Angular JS application wif teh RESTful web services. Develop core backend OraclePLSQL packages that read teh data from teh database and used by Java program to display data on teh dashboard. Performed unit testing for Angular functionalities and http services using Jasmine and Karma. Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated teh nodes in teh tree. Implemented teh Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework. Environment: Windows, React JS, Redux, Angular JS, MVC, AJAX, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript, jQuery, Handlebars, HTML, XHTML, CSS, React JS, Kendo UI, LESS, REST, Oracle PL/SQL, JSP, DOM Confidential, Detroit, MI UI Developer/Web Developer/Front-end Developer Responsibilities: Participated in Agile Scrum methodology for application development. Analysis, design, coding, unit, and integration testing of business applications in an object-oriented environment. Developed stylish and unique front-end wif redundancy and easy compression of data using CSS3 SASS preprocessor. Developed unit test cases using Jasmine to test Angular controllers and services and developed custom validations using Angular JS Used Typescript to develop applications wif Angular JS and Node.js Used Grunt to automatically compile Typescript. Implemented core features of Angular framework such as dependency Injection, Data-binding, Filters, Directives, Templates, Services and Deep Linking. Developed a cross-device/cross browser web application utilizing Angular JS, JavaScript API in conjunction wif Bootstrap. Worked wif Angular JS routers, forms, modules, dom, events, expressions, controllers, filters and HttpRequest. Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from teh server. Designed and developed database objects like Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, User Functions using SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 8i and DB2 and used them in EJBs and WEB components. Designed Client-side validations using Angular JS custom form validation that leverages various angular directives and integrated Angular JS Filters to format data for searching, ordering and conditional iterating. Component level design and defined teh usage of AJAX to reuse teh network bandwidth efficiently and making feel that teh user resides in teh same page of our website. Worked to resolve cross browser compatibility issues and fixed teh bugs. Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features. Cross-browser compatible, standards compliant table-less websites in XHTML, CSS and JavaScript Developed web pages wif functionalities like login, register, forget password, Email, Filters using JavaScript, jQuery and HTML. Performed usability testing and Unit Testing and Regression Testing of Web Application. Standardized processes for testing Angular applications, using Karma wif Mocha for unit and integration testing. Environment: Windows, Angular JS, TypeScript, Grunt, Angular UI, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, DB2, EJB, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Karma, Mocha, XHTML Confidential - Pittsburgh, PA Java UI Developer Responsibilities: Followed SDLC - Agile/Scrum methodologies to execute project. Build teh application using TDD (Test Driven Development) approach. System was developed using Java, J2EE technologies and open source frameworks and application was implemented using Struts architecture. Implemented MVC architecture and DAO design pattern for maximum abstraction of teh application and code reusability. Design and development of presentation layer using JSP, jQuery, AJAX, JSTL, HTML, and JavaScript. Using technologies like SOAP, WSDL and UDDI based Web Services. Exposing and consuming web services using SOAP/WSDL for getting request from external source systems and sending response to external source systems. Developed teh workflow interfaces using struts tiles layouts JSP, and request processors using dispatch action & action. Used teh Struts Validation Framework for UI validation and worked wif Struts tag libraries. Extensively worked wif XML schema, XSL, XSLT to navigate in XML documents, and SAX to process & parse xml files. Designing and configuring core xml files for implementation of struts. Involved in writing Struts form-beans for transferring teh data from Controller to teh Model and implementing teh file upload/download functionality using Struts, Servlets. Developed EJB's to validate user login details and provide teh requested information to teh client. Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML files that contains declarations and another dependent object declaration. Worked wif relational database Oracle, JDBC, SQL and creating Stored procedures functions using SQL. Development of Controllers using Struts2 and modifying teh handlers required for teh new requirements and enhancements. Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information. Analyze Performance and redesign of system for scalability and low latency. Used SOAP-UI to test teh Web Services using WSDL. Extensively used ANT for creating build scripts and deployment into Web Logic Application Server and Log4j for logging. Developed application using IntelliJ IDEA and used CVS for version control across common source code used by developers. Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by teh testing teams during teh Integration testing phase. Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Struts2, Spring, EJB, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, MVC, Oracle, WebLogic, DAO, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, TDD, XML, SQL, JMS, CVS, SOAP, Axis 1.4 Ant, Log4j, IntelliJ IDEA. Confidential Java UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of teh application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development. Create and maintain web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, Java, J2EE and also responsible for Designing of Web pages including Ajax controls and XML. Responsible for creating teh screens wif table-less designs meeting W3C standards. Responsible for developing teh pages using JQuery, AJAX, and JSON to parse on data on teh frontend on teh fly. Used Spring MVC as framework and JavaScript for major data entry, which involved extreme level of data validation at client side using Ajax. Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant. Implemented chained select plug-in for JQuery wif JSON processing and callback feature, chain multiple selects wif ease. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging. Implemented different validation control on teh web-pages using JavaScript. Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on teh client side wif in teh forms. Used JSON for data exchange between application modules along wif XML. Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to teh clients and teh management to review. Involved in developing XML, HTML, and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on teh client side wif in teh forms. Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix teh bugs pertaining to various browsers. Environment: HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Restful, Java, J2EE, Eclipse 3.5, Oracle 10g, XML, JSON, W3C, SVN. 