SUMMARY Over 8+ years of extensive experience on web based applications using PHP, Zend, MySQL, Drupal, Lamp, CodeIgnitor, WordPress, Magento, Symphony, Laravel, Wordpreml, CakePHP, PHP, Drupal, Magento, Symphone, Symphony Good working experience in designing and implementing various web applications in both LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL,PHP) and WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL,PHP) Environments. Good Experience in PHP5x, MySQL, Python, OOPS, Design Patterns, HTML5, CSS. Experienced in solving issues in web browsers, following the W3C standards to maintain the website wif defect free. Strong expertise in Web Application development using PHPwif OOPs, CVS,SVN, MySQL, MS SQLServer, JavaScript, node.js, Phpc jQuery, AJAX, CSS, Flash ActionScript 3.0 and XML. Proficient in Web Services, REST, SOAP, XML, XSL, XSLT, XPath, XSD, DTD, CSS, DOM, HTML 5, AJAX and JavaScript and JQuery. Experience on working wif CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements. Solid experience in developing Graphic User Interface (GUI) to display report data using JQuery in Cross - browser compatibility and Web application scaling. Expertise in creating the pages using CSS webpage layouts and vast knowledge in usability and accessibility concepts. Experienced in Responsive Web Design technology wif or wifout framework like Bootstrap Hands on experience on NoSQL (MongoDB) databases, tuning, and optimization. Good Working knowledge of any Javascript framework (YUI, jQuery, Prototype)Object-oriented programming. Strong HTML and CSS in multi-browser environments. Experience in web and mobile testing using emulators, mobile devices and browsers like Safari, Chrome, Firefox, IE, Opera. Experience in Relational MySQL database design and maintenance. Experience in creating documentation of technical systems, training users in complex topics, and operational procedures. Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions. Excellent experience wifPHPdevelopment under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora) Experience in PERL wif sufficient exposure to Windows, Linux Significant experience in web development tools like APTANA STUDIO, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Spring Tool Suite, Eclipse, and Firebug. Worked in MVC frameworks like ZEND, CakePHP, and CodeIgniter as well as e-commerce web environments such as CCK, Views, Drush, and agile Development. Experience wif MySQL, MSSQL or other RDBMS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Palo Alto, CA Senior PHP Developer Responsibilities: Designed and implemented modules Zend Framework based on specification provided by client.. Designed database tables like administrator, supervisor and employee in MYSQL. Created Front end UI for Service Reporting System using Drupal. Worked on an open-source CMS to build website using Drupal. Performed Back-End development using PHP ( MVC CodeIgniter Framework) UtilizePHP, MySQL, WordPress, HTML, JavaScript, SQL Server, CSS in support of the system including input/update forms, database storage and reporting capabilities. Extensive working experience wif Content Management Tools such as Drupal6 and Drupal7, Joomla, WordPress and Magento. Worked wif symphony, design patterns like singleton pattern, registry pattern and model view control pattern in Zend framework Build an in-house platform using the Laravel Framework. Worked in MVC frameworks like ZEND, CakePHP, and CodeIgniter as well as e-commerce web environments such as CCK, Views, Drush, and agile Development. Experienced in PHP, MySQL, Python, OOPS, Design Patterns, HTML5, CSS Experience wif Zend MVC Framework and Zend X libraries for developing enterprise applications. Excellent experience wifPHPdevelopment under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora Expertise in creating the pages using CSS webpage layouts and vast knowledge in usability and accessibility concepts. Experience in Drupal Themes developing Drupal custom modules, resolving Drupal configuration issues. Worked in CMS tools such as Joomla, Drupal and WordPress. Worked extensively in application Software Analysis, Design, Development, and testing (all the phases of SDLC and Quality Assurance/Testing). Work involved: System Analysis, Preparation of Detailed Design (DD), Performing and Monitoring Development (Coding), Report Generation, Unit, System, Integration and Performance testing of the application and its components. Expert in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts usingPHP Experience wif Zend MVC Framework and Zend X libraries for developing enterprise applications. Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills. Worked on an open-source CMSDrupal to build website using Drupal Extensive working experience wif Content Management Tools such as Drupal, Joomla, and Wordpress. Good Working knowledge of any Javascript framework (YUI, jQuery, Prototype, or others) Object-oriented programming Experienced in Responsive Web Design technology wif or wifout framework like Bootstrap. Excellent experience wifPHPdevelopment under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora Expert in UI development technologies such as JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, GWT. Good understanding of Java, JSP, GWT, AJAX, JQuery Library and plugins. Experienced in WEB and GUI development using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, XSL, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, DOJO, POJO, AJAX, JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) technologies. Experience in upgrading the database fromOracle10g toOracle11g/12c and migration of the databases using transportable database Experience in executing concurrent programs fromPL/SQL. Designed various applications on JDBC language Reviewed and edited the SOPs and Maintenance manuals (Linux,Cassandra, VMware, Webmaster). Has done Tuning and Maintenance ofWebLogicServer versions Creating AMI and snapshot for EC2 instance before any scheduled maintenance wif GIT Worked on Ams Tool which is very halpful for applicant tracking in recruitment process and CRPO Tool is very halpful for tracking campus candidates using GitHub tool Used Karma for unit testing andProtractor and Jasiminefor end to end testing. Confidential, Palo Alto, CA Senior PHP Developer Responsibilities: Used Zend-Debugger for the error resolutions. Excellent experience on MVC frameworks like code igniter, Zend and CakePHP Used PHPMyAdmin to handle the administration of MYSQL over the World Wide Web Design and architect database for web application using Mysql Workbench Optimize mysql tables and web application using XDebug + other profilers. Experience in Drupal Themes developing Drupal custom modules, resolving Drupal configuration issues. Created Front end UI for Service Reporting System using Drupal Created Drupal modules for Activity log and Service Reporting System Created Drupal modules for automated approvals, billing and pay rates, custom reporting and payroll integration Worked wif NOC, LAMP stack and IT operations. Solid hands on experience wif LAMP Stack, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, HTML5 Mobile Frameworks Good working experience in designing and implementing various web applications in both LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL,PHP) and WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL,PHP) Environments. Wrote initial RESTful API skeleton using PHP ( MVC CodeIgniter Framework and CIBonfire CMS) Tested the WordPress Website and Force.com Application, reporting and diagnosing errors wif the development team. Experience in Content Management System such as WordPress, Joomla, SCOOP (New York Times CMS tool). Developing and maintaining all WordPress Blog sites. Extensive working experience wif Content Management Tools such as Drupal6 and Drupal7, Joomla, WordPress and Magento. Solid knowledge and Understanding on internet technologies including XML, web service, JQuery, Joomla, Drupal, Magento etc. Worked wif symphony, design patterns like singleton pattern, registry pattern and model view control pattern in Zend framework. Designed reports for the state transport management system using Symphony. Utilized the Laravel framework for backend application and AngularJS for frontend. Developed Laravel packages, http://github.com/parfumix Experience inPHP, LAMP, WAMP, Drupal, WordPress, Zend, CodeIgniter, CakePHP Frameworks Solid experience wif UNIX/Linux, MVC, Subversion, CVS, Git, Zend, CakePHP, CodeIgniter, Symphony Framework, and LAMP toolset Experience inJava, J2ee, web service, JSON, HTML, CSS,JavaScript, Spring core Build Single Page Applications (SPAs) and PWA using react, redux, Javascript(ES6) wif backward compatibility and polyfill provided by Babel, node, Express, MongoDB Implemented of a Online Crime Information System wif the halp of J2EE language (AdvancedJava) which included HTML, Servlets,CSSand JavaScript DevelopedHTML5Video Player business application to play VOD and LIVE content along wif video ads from multiple sources basis geo on a multitude of screens. Lead the team'sHTML5/CSS-3 development efforts while creating two responsive (bootstrap) web apps. Produced style guides for web and mobile devices and implemented allUIfunctionality according to spec. Created Server API for Cryptocurrency App inNodeJS Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) Framework, jQuery,Angular.js, React.JS, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites. Experience in making Responsive web pages (RWD) using Bootstrap.js, RESTful API web development and media queries and Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code. Confidential, New York, NY PHP Developer Responsibilities: Development of websites and customization of existing software, primarily usingPHPand MySQL Implement,architect, design, and test new Wordpress plugins against a variety of shared and private hosting or cloud environments. Use MySQL andPHPto manage user sessions wifin Wordpress. Installation and Setup of LAMP Stack (web, e-mail, dns, ftp, etc) WHM/cPanel. Write idiomaticphpcode, implementing basic framework functionality, similar in structure to codeigniter Worked wif extensively wif CodeIgniter, Drupal, and Wordpress. Created a movie streaming web application similar to Netflix to complement our WIFI hotspot service using CodeIgnitor Implement Wordpress members API to create new users from third party data. Create, augment, fork, or extend proprietary Wordpress plugins based on client need. Build, process and enapsolate user data into Wordpress plugin, compiled wif Phar. Implement,architect, design, and test new Wordpress plugins against a variety of shared and private hosting or cloud environments. Experience in analyse, architect, design, and development of e-commerce applications usingMagentoplatform. Created the business workflow wif opensymphonyBPM. Involved in creation business process wif opensymphonyBPM tool. Experience wif LARAVEL, ZEND MVC, SMARTY, WORDPRESS, JOOMALA Framework and different ZEND libraries for developing applications Designed and developed relational database Developed entire applications utilizingPHP, Laravel, MongoDB, Redis, Java, and Angular 5 Led development using Laravel framework, MariaDB, Beanstalk and Elastic Search. Fluent in framework based development scenarios. Profiled projects has featured acapF,CakePHPKohana, ProcessWire CMF/CMS Developed tools for every level of market interaction including integration wif 3rd party services, market data aggregation, client communication, and task management. EmployedPHP, HTML, JS, XML, JSON on LAMP and Nginx stacks. Responsible for server health and site performance for all products. Configured and maintained several LAMP environments running WHM for various clients. Devloped Page level code using JavaScript wifAngular.JSframework along wif jQuery and other JavaScript libraries.. Devloped Form Bean, Controller, Service, DAO classes, Table Beans (Model) forSpring Strong understanding of Development and Implementation and knowledge of various technologies likeJava, Servlets, JSP, Html5,Hibernate Developed multipleDB2stored procedures as per the requirement and provided for UI. Worked on Database using MySQL forCRUDoperations in the modules. Developed code on PL/SQl for FIEL CPS application deals wif adding/modifying/deleting the customer details for the bank Experience wif high availability setup forMongodbclusters and scaling data using sharding technique Expertise in Web-Development technologies including: AngularJs, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, XML, XSLT, XPATH, DOJO, AJAX,SOAPwif W3C standards. Hands on experience in J2SE and JEE Developed RESTWebservicewhich communicate android and iOS phone to GeoTrak Application, Designed and developed functionalities in MVC pattern in eclipse enjoinment Confidential, Durham, NC Magento Developer Responsibilities: Involved in developing interactive web applications using a dynamic scripting language likePHP, Ruby, and Python & Perl. Developed/Design the application using WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, andPHP) architecture Design Autantication form to check whether the user is an authorized person to use the system Interact wif Client to gather requirement. Analyze Requirement and develop functionality accordingly Worked on the MySQL Experience in developing UI applications using HTML, HTML5, JQuery, and AJAX, AngularJS and JavaScript. Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build MVC Architecture wif angular JS. ImplementedPHPsession variables and cookies. Used Zend-Debugger for the error resolutions. Created the halp desk for user's queries to meet the bulk queries submitted by the users. Implemented Bootstrap in developing UI. Created Drupal modules for Activity log and Service Reporting System Implemented SEO based Drupal modules optimizing the search function all over the site. Conceived and designed database tables in MYSQL. Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using UI and MVC architecture. Design theme using HTML 5/XHTML, CSS 3. Used bootstrap for designing web pages to get responsive designs. Used CSS and Bootstrap to develop Rich UI Components such as Accordions and Modal Windows using pure HTML 5 And CSS3. Modified the source code according to the requirement. Used PHPMyAdmin to handle the administration of MYSQL over the World Wide Web Worked in CMS tools such as Joomla, WordPress Building the website from scratch in Aptana Used JavaScript to make interactive site. Responsible to handle frontend side of application to make it high Expertise in management of project assignments right from inception till implementation & production support and ensuring deliverables wifin assigned time, quality & cost parameters wif Jquery technology Expertise in developing responsive forms and pages via Bootstrap, Foundation, and Materialize, SASS/CSS,jQuery, Javascript, Ajax, and REST components Developed CRM application usingAjax, Javascript, CSS Involved in Requirement gathering phase in order to gather the requirements from the business users and dealing wif UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements. Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML5,DOJO, CSS3, JavaScript, JSP and Struts Framework. Experience in Sencha ExtJS frameworks in AJAX-driven websites using proxy to get the data from the back-end in the form of JSON and XML to populate on theUIcomponents Experience inSpring/Hibernate/REST based J2EE server development. Experience ofJAVA, SQL,iBatis, Apache Wicket, Spring DI, Spring MVC, Spring BOOT and Hibernate. Worked on Cashback website on struts framework Design & develop IT Software (covering integrated process, applications, data, infrastructure, security & other technologies) to resolve business requirements wif JSF tool Designed and developed in interface framework to keep the application of the JBPM Interaction wif EJB classes Confidential, Jacksonville, FL PHP Developer Responsibilities: Created the User Management for different clients. Created User Interfaces for different users. Created the initial design to determine the look and feel of the website. Developed applications inPHPto aid in the printing and reporting of lead generation for clients. Developed the secured server user and admin accounts for secured web access. Adapted layouts from graphic artists to internet pages using HTML/CSS. Took active part in site architecture design. Designed enhancements to an existing Drupal system and implemented those designs. Updating Drupal and plugins to new version across all sites. Experience in Content Management System such as WordPress, Joomla, SCOOP (New York Times CMS tool). Developing and maintaining all WordPress Blog sites. Use ofPHPto develop website functionality. UsedPHP/ MySQL in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL andPHP) environment for creating dynamic data driven and interactive web pages. Developed modules and templates using joomla. Responsible for designing and developing the new screens. Expert inPHPsession variables and cookies implementation. Expert inPHPconnectivity backend files or database. Used CSS, HTML, and JavaScript for developing rich user interface. Implemented Ajax in front-end. Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages in Apache axis 2 Designed and built signup and login pages using HTML and JavaScript and used Parse to save user information in the back-end in WSDL environment Worked on Specific Coding Editorusing NETBEANS Experience wifJBossapplication servers, Tomcat. Experienced in Version control system likeMercurial Expertise using version control tools like CVS, SVN, GIT, VSS and RationalClearcase Developed BDD test scripts in cucumber usingseleniumWeb Driver (Using page object model) and integration tests wif Jenkins., Expertise in employingWaterFallModeland best practices for software development. Experience in building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to web pages using UML Done several projects onJspAnd Spring Confidential, Jacksonville, FL Software Developer Responsibilities: ModifyingPHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery as per project requirement. Worked on the User Interface of the application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuer Developed high-level interface using Drupal 6 and PHP4. Worked on e-commerce installs usingPHP, CSS, HTML, MYSQL and MSSQL. Used HTML, CSS, java script, J query on client side. Back end development and maintenance of websites usingPHPand My SQL. Efficiently developed code for different modules by using Oracle SQL, PLSQL and Shell scripting Worked on applications and developed them wif XML, JSON, XSL (PHP, Django, Python, Rails) Responsible for all client side UI validation and implementing business logic based on user selection using jQuery UI. Strong and creativeUI/UXDeveloperwif over 8 years of development experience in front-end development using HTML/HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, XML and JavaScript frameworks such as jQuery, AJAX, JSON and Bootstrap. Experience on working wif CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS. Extensive experience in web design using CSS3, Bootstrap, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, Dreamweaver. InteractiveUIDeveloperin User Interface Design, Software Design, Development, Implementation, Testing, and Documentation of both Web & Client Server Applications. Implemented various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) library. Experience in Redux architecture and implemented SPA's wif React Router. Designed and developed large web based enterprise solutions wif emphasis on use of HTML, XML, XHTML, CSS, various jQuery plug-ins and OO JavaScript framework. Designed and Developed Web applications using CSS pre-processors like LESS, SASS/SCSS and excellent experience in CSS methodologies like OOCSS, BEM and SMACSS.