SUMMARY 5 years of experience in IT industry worked with all phases of Analysis, Design, development, testing and documentation of Web Based Applications. 3 years of experience in Content Management System with Adobe AEM 5.6 and AEM 6.1. Better understanding of Classic/Touch Modes of AEM 5.6 & 6.1 Hands on experience in developing Templates, components using JSP, OSGI bundles, sling services, custom workflow process and customizing out of the box widget and components Strong knowledge on employing Java Content Repository(JCR) for developing applications on Adobe CQ Worked on Adobe CQ/AEM product suite, including CQ/AEM, CRX, CQ WCM and DAM. Experience implementing, enhancing, and troubleshooting AEM/CQ 5.5+ installations Good understanding of end - to-end content lifecycle, web content management, content publishing/deployment, and delivery processes Experience in web technologies including XML, XHTML, client/server-side scripting languages such as JavaScript, JSP, and web services development using RESTful implementations Strong experience in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and Java Script. Expertise in comprehensive content management platform solution for building websites, Mobile apps and forms. Have a good understanding of CQ Mobile development concepts like server-side Mobile API, Mobile Components, Emulators, Device Groups, Device Detection and Mobile request processing and Have a good understanding of Social Collaboration and Campaign Management with CQ. Created/maintained CSS and JavaScript libraries along with React for web applications Worked with stages like transformer and Hash files, Aggregator, sort etc Debugged the website using Chrome Developer's tool and manipulated the nodes using DOM functions. Created the logos, images and icons that were used across multiple pages using Adobe Photoshop. Strong understanding of front-end technologies and libraries including JQuery, ExtJS, JSON. Experience in using Java IDE tools like Eclipse. Good knowledge of database connectivity (JDBC) for databases like SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle. Well versed with SDLC phases with extensive experience in requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Build, Testing, Documentation and Maintenance. Experience working in Agile development environment. Team player with good communication and written skills and excellent programming skills. Self-motivated team player with excellent problem solving skills and ability to learn new technologies and tools quickly. TECHNICAL SKILLS Content Management: AEM 5.6, AEM 6.1, CQ5 DAM, Adobe CQ5 APIs, CQ Tagging Web Technologies: XML, HTML, JSON, Linux Shell Script, JQuery, Apache Sling, Jackrabbit., JCR 2.0 Languages: Java, C, C++, SQL, HTML, XML, XSLT, XSD, JavaScript . Programming: HTML 4.0, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Perl, Sybase, UNIX Shell Scripting. MVC framework, Groovy and Grails Application Servers: Tomcat, Apache web-server Databases & Tools: Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, SQL Server 2000, 2005 & 2008; IIS 6.0/7.0, RAD, Rational, Rose, JDeveloper, NetBeans, Sql developer Version Control Tools Subversion, CVS, IBM Rational Clear Case. Operating Systems: Windows, LINUX (Red Hat), Mac OS. Protocols: HTTP, SOAP, TCP/IP IDE/ Tools: CRXDE, Eclipse, RAD Defect Tracking Tool: JIRA, Bugzilla Methodologies: Agile(Scrum), waterfall, TDD, SDLC PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Irvine, CA AEM Developer Responsibilities: Installed and configured version 6.1 of Adobe AEM Web Content Management System and Apache Felix Admin Console. Developed custom templates, components, and widgets using AEM and integrated Components with Angular JS. Worked on launches functionality to drive business to create different release related launch pages so that they could be used to have release specific content changes. Created workflow model and workflows to push the content from author instance to publish instance upon approval. Proficient in Adobe AEM foundational concepts, including the CRX repository, the AEM platform, the use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix. Implemented the Sling Servlet, OSGI bundles for interacting with remote spring WebAPI services and custom business logic in java. Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application in authoring environment. Used Adobe Dynamic Tag Management (DTM) and integration of AEM with Adobe Analytics and Adobe Target. Worked on CQ5 Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level. Designed DAM taxonomy and tagging for the website elements allowing classifying them by several different categorizations at the same time. Involved in building, deploying the code, moving code to different environments and Supporting the application post production and maintenance. Worked and consumed RESTful and SOAP based web services. GIT is used as a distributed revision control system for CQ. File vault in conjunction with GIT helps to pull or push the code to developer's machine. Developed custom widgets using Ext JS based on the requirement. Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages. Used jQuery, Angular JS to provide services to different components of portal. Interacting with business team for clarifications on the requirements. Adopt and utilize iterative/Agile methodology as needed or requested Analyzing and identifying the problems and fixing the issues. Environment: Java, Web Service, AEM 6.0, AEM 6.1 Forms, AEM 6.1, JavaScript. Confidential, Denver, CO AEM Developer Responsibilities: Installing author/ Publishing instances. Upgraded all the current CQ5.6.1 instances to AEM 6.1. Strong Understanding and experience in implementation, customization, and integration of Adobe AEM/CQ5 sites. Implemented the internationalization (I18N) for newly developed components in AEM 6.0. Developed components, templates and also created some workflows using the requirements in AEM 6.0 Configuring replication, reverse replication agents and Dispatcher cache. Experienced in creating AEM clustering and Package Creation/ installations, tree activations. Developed OSGI components/services, sling Servlets, and AEM components/templates. Worked on the issues like Disable Targeting and JQuery Versioning which usually arise when upgrading from CQ5.6.1 to AEM 6.0 Build new Jenkins Jobs for the new AEM instances. Configured Replication and Dispatcher Flush in the AEM. Experience in creating author/publisher clusters with dispatchers Developed CQ Templates, Components, Widgets and OSGI Bundles in the AEM instances. Integration of AEM Forms for customer experience in across multiple channels. Is working with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console. Developed Custom Components and Workflows. Also been working with the Cloud Versioning called Cloud Forge and also been in to using the Team Forge the way to handle the agile methodology. Worked with DAM Assets, Package Manager, Package Share, Replication, JCR, XPath and other AEM APIs. Involved with the training of Content Authoring to the new AEM Content Authors. Experience with backup & restore of CQ instance. Used GIT and SVN versioning tools and Experience with Continuous Integration and Automated Test Execution and building tools such as Jenkins, Maven Environment: Java (jdk1.6,1.7), JSP, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Adobe CQ5.6.1, AEM6.0, Apache Sling, CRXDE, WCM, Forms, Team Forge, Cloud Forge Jackrabbit, JIRA. Confidential, San Ramon, CA Responsibilities: Developed and maintained UHG plan pages and DAM assets using Adobe AEM/CQ Created custom templates using Adobe experience manager 6.1 Developed multiple custom components using AEM Developed new pages with new templates for the 2017 plans, using groovy script to transfer old content to new template Involved in setting up server at Mirum for the internal code management, transferred from UHG AEM design and framework development and Architecture using components widgets, CQ5 bundle, JCR/Sling API, clustering publish and author and editing content with the help of widgets Worked on JavaScript for better performance of previously existing web pages Created Responsive Designs using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML Developed UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens and used HTML to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application Developed and designed the front end using XML, XSLT, HTML, and CSS Main code changes were done in JSP, JQuery, and AJAX and JavaScript environment Environment: AEM 5.6/6.0, HTML, HTML5, CSS2, CSS3, Adobe CQ5, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Ajax Confidential Web Designer/Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Requirements Gathering phase of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) with Business Analyst. Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Involved in developing test plan and procedures. Migrating legacy applications to multi-tiered web applications. Developed web pages with functionalities like login, register, forget password, Email, Filters using Java Script, jQuery and HTML. Used JavaScript to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time in web pages to get user input and requests. Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures. Debugging webpages with firebug and fixing issues. Testing browser compatibility and addressing browser compatibility issues. Optimizing SQL queries and stored procedures. Maintaining documents and source code in CVS. Environment: Eclipse, Firebug, CVS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL, PL/SQL. 