SUMMARY Over FOUR years of experience in IT with 2+ in RPA. Robotic Process Automation Analyst with Automation Anywhere and UI Path experience. Seeking a challenging opportunity to utilize experience and education with strong communication and presentation Skills substantiated in past assignments with project managers, subject - matter experts, stakeholders, system implementers, and application end-users . The leadership skills, work experience in automation, and intricate understanding of robotic process automation and information systems, shows the enthusiasm Have for career and eager to grow attributes and make a commitment to a permanent job. A mission driven individual with the drive and motivation to achieve results consistently, no matter what the odds are and Energetic, dedicated worker aiming to help by achieving company goals and take on more responsibility as quickly as possible. Automated several complex business processes to mimic human intervention and provide more accuracy and added more value to business applications in the Client/Server environment using Java technologies. Certified UIPath professional with extensive knowledge. Recommended innovative solution to resolve high technical issues to enhance performance of existing business process using advanced OCR and email automation. Created reusable automation framework with MetaBots and reusable libraries with data externalization for RPA implementation. Able to understand the business process and create process flow diagrams. Designed and configured the Automation Anywhere and UI path infrastructure for development, test and live environments, which comprises Interactive clients, Resource PCs, Application servers and Database servers. Analyzed business process and identify automation opportunities and asses’ automation feasibility. Strong in identifying and communicating technical infrastructure requirements to deploy automation solutions. Work closely alongside Account managers, and RPA Specialists, etc. to ensure requirements are delivered on-time and to-specification. Designed, Developed and tested Bot's tasks using Automation Anywhere. Expertise in using Rational tools for creating Use Cases, Version Control, Defect Tracking, monitoring and extensively used the Agile, Scrum, Rational Unified Process (RUP) methodologies in all areas of the software development life cycle (SDLC). Adaptive and demonstrating proficiency in teamwork to maximize levels of productivity and co-Operating towards forming cohesive team environments. Advanced knowledge of Microsoft packages such as XL Macros, MS Visio, MS Access and MS Word. TECHNICAL SKILLS Technologies: RPA, UI Path, Automation Anywhere V 10.5, Certified UIPath Professional ( ). Programming Languages: JavaScript, Java, J2EE, XML, PL / SQL, AngularJS, SQL, HTML, CSS, Chrome driver, MS SQL Server. Databases: MS SQL Server (2012, 2008, 2005.) Tools: Automation Anywhere, UI Path, UI path, Visual Studio. Methodology: Agile Scrum, Water Fall. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Irving, TX Automaton Anywhere, RPA Developer Responsibilities: Excellent understanding of current Robotic Process Automation (RPA) products and technology & upcoming trends in RPA technology landscape Lead in creation, development, refinement and maintenance of an ongoing automated management information Reporting of Automation Anywhere processes in MS Access and Excel. Direct efforts to define technical, operational and user requirements Designed conceptual architecture and technical solutions and lead efforts to develop and implement client-approved solution Demonstrated the capabilities of RPA for on-going projects and for future potential clients and facilitated the presentations to the clients. Extensive experience in problem identification, error resolution process and reporting defects. Having exposure and understanding of bot performance and metrics to ensure that architecture and infrastructure met current and future business needs. Streamlined and supported requests and bug fixes to meet program deliverables to ensure RPA implementation success Having strong Understanding of product capability, structure, protocols, application integration, technology, deployment related to Robotic Process Automation Worked with clients and partners to provide functional and technical expertise in areas including, solution design, project management, business process improvement and risk identification/mitigation Having experience with MS SQL DB, SQL scripting languages VB Script, XL Macros, Java Script, CSS and html. Having ability and desire to learn new technologies. Self-motivated in project management, time-management to drive to achieve goals Environment: Automation Anywhere V 10.5, VB Script, Java Script, CSS and Html, Oracle and SQL databases. Confidential, NYC, NY Blue Prism, RPA Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for design, development, testing and implementation of RPA bots that interact with the third-party applications. Identify business requirements, requirements management, functional design, prototyping process design like scenario design and flow mapping and testing, training, defining support procedures and supporting implementations. Identify improvements and analyze the feasibility of process and automate the process using UI path Experienced in building UI path Processes and Business Objects for various business systems. Worked with mainframe, Windows, Web application and surface automation. End to end process automation using UI path. Creates and maintains process technical project or other documentation as may be required to support development, project management and training. Implemented UI path User authentication by defining user roles, creating users and setting password policies. Experience in using UI path Credential Manager for maintaining, securing and retrieving the user credentials. Configuring new UI path processes and objects using core workflow principles that are efficient, well structured, maintainable and easy to understand. Supporting existing processes and implementing change requirements as part of a structured change control process. Experience in managing robot & workloads using UI path Work Queues. Environment: UI path, SQL, VBA, XL Macros, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, IBM Synergy, IBM Change, IBM WebSphere, Java / J2EE Patterns. Confidential, Irvine, CA Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and created UML diagrams such as Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts for the Optimization module using Microsoft Visio. Worked with Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injection, Spring Context to provide message sources. Developed Spring Configuration file to define data source, beans and Hibernate properties. Developed software in JAVA/J2EE, Struts, XML, Oracle and Enterprise Architecture and developed the functionality for communicating between the modules mostly involved in VIEW and CONTOLLER section of MVC pattern for CMS project, includes HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX. Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions. Various JSF, Rich faces tags were used to implement asynchronous requests to Web container. Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, MVC Struts, Spring, PL-SQL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, WebSphere Application Server, Rational Rose, UML, MS Visio, Rational Unified Process (RUP), XML, Oracle, VSS, Log4j, UNIX. Confidential Web developer Responsibilities: Coordinated with the BA group for better understanding of functional requirements, Analyzed and Designed the business requirements to documented and implemented. Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML. Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML. Implemented applications in JavaScript, and MySQL. Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries. Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript. Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application. Tested/De-bugged Web browser using Firebug. Managing and implementing all code changes via SVN. Deploying builds across development, staging and production instances and maintaining code integrity. Environment: JavaScript, jQuery, PHP 5.0, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Apache, Windows 2000/XP. 