SUMMARY Over 7+ years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web - based and Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies in various domains like Finance/E-Commerce/Banking/Insurance. Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum. Ability to efficiently translate algorithms, ideas and concepts to software applications. Expertise with Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Modelling (OOM) based on Unified Modelling Language (UML) architecture. Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis and Developed RESTFUL web services using Spring MVC. Proficient in design and rapid development of web and J2EE applications using Core Java, JSP, JSF, CSS, Servlets, EJB, JavaScript, Spring, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, SWING, HTML/DHTML, XML and Struts Experience in client side designing and validations using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, AngularJS and NodeJS. Involved in developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and React.JS Familiarity and little experience with java8 features. Proficient in MVC architecture using spring framework / JSP-Servlet and J2EE Design Patterns. Expertise in Struts and Hibernates Frameworks. Implemented client side Interface using React JS. Comprehensive knowledge in RDBMS databases like Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server 2005, 2008, DB2, and MySQL 4.x, 5.0. Development experience in Windows, Linux, Mac OS, Docker containers and UNIX operating systems. Used DAO access and writing DML, DDL and triggers for DB2 database and other client environment specific tools to design the client module. Maintained AWS infrastructure and developed back end services Developed and maintained web application systems using Node JS, React JS Angular JS and Amazon Web Services(AWS). Experience in working with build management tools like Ant, Maven and Jenkins Experience in installing, configuring, tuning Apache Tomcat, WebLogic and WebSphere. Experience in developing Micro services using RESTful services. Proven experience with Application Servers like IBM WebSphere 6.x/5.x/7.x, Oracle/BEA WebLogic9.x/8.x/7.x/6.x, JBoss and Tomcat 5.x/4.x/3/x. Understanding with platforms such as AWS, Open Shift and Spring Cloud etc. Hands-on in unit testing using tools like JEST, Karma, Jasmine and selenium web drivers. Extensive knowledge on a complete development life cycle (SDLC), from design, coding, development, maintenance, troubleshooting to quality analysis, testing and debugging. Experience in designing Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Flow diagrams, Sequence diagrams using UML technology. Experience in manipulating IDE or tools such as Netbeans, Eclipse, Webstrom, Visual Studio Code, pyCharm, Atom, Sublime, Text. Good Understanding and experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation. Extensively worked on NOSQL Databases like MongoDB, CouchDB, Cloudant and PouchDB database for application to work offline. Experience working with Google App Engine, Google Data store, Cron-jobs, Mandrill, Mail-chimp, Google sheets and Python 2.7. Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills, time management and Team skills and strive hard to attain project goals inside assigned deadlines. TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies: HTML, HTML 5, DHTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), CSS3, SASS, LESS, JSP, Servlets, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, Typescript, JSON, AJAX. IDE, HTML Editor: Notepad++, Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio code, Webstorm, Atom, Netbeans, Pycharm, Sublime Editor, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop. Application servers: Google app engine, Web Sphere and Tomcat 6.x/7.x. JBoss, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat Database: Oracle10g, SQL Server 2012/2016, MongoDB, Couch DB, Cloudant, Google Datastore DB2, MySQL, NoSQL databases JavaScript Frameworks: Spring, JSF, Structs, Hibernate, JPA, Can JS, React JS, Electron Operating Systems: Windows, Mac OS, UNIX. Version Controls: SVN, CVS, GIT, Bit-Bucket, Source Tree. Testing: Junit, Selenium. Methodologies: SDLC, OOAD, Agile Continuous Int Tools: Hudson, Jenkins PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Hackensack, NJ Sr. UI Developer Responsibilities: Worked closely with SMEs, developers and other IT teams to understand the scope of the project and accordingly gather functional requirements of the project in order to design and implement the application. Worked with Angular.js to create webpages and created screenshots. Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, JSON, Angular JS, Bootstrap, and JavaScript. Participated in meetings with the end-clients to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them with the help of HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. Used Angular 5 and Angular 4 to build Enterprise applications and also worked on microsite design. Brief experience on implementing the Angular.js in creating animations based on CSS classes. Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with RWD to apply different styles to the layouts for varying screen sizes and pixels. Worked on jQuery to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request. Hands on experience in working with Azure. Designed applications that execute on various browsers such as Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, and Opera using various debugging tools like Firebugs/IE Developer Tools. Represented data in the form of bar diagrams, pie charts etc. (Data Visualization). Reviewed customer feedback about the debugging issues, fixed bugs with HTML5 and JavaScript codes and worked on resolving browser compatibility issues. Developed components to fetch the data from the back end using AJAX and jQuery. Hands on experience using the version controls like SVN and GIT. Analyze the response of JSON in order to update DOM Testing JavaScript using the Jasmine and Karma framework. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JSON, Angular.js, jQuery, XHTML, AJAX, SVN, Node JS, Bootstrap, GIT, Jasmine. Confidential, Marysville, OH Sr. UI Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for developing efficient design and developing user interactive Desktop and Web Applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular material, Material Design. Implemented client-side Interface using Angular 4. Extensively used Angular Material and Angular-Bootstrap for responsiveness and expertise in Grid Control System. Used Angular 4 predefined components from NPM and bower libraries. Actively Involved in design, development and implementation of the website based on component based MVC architecture. worked in Creating custom directives, custom Pipes and custom filters using Angular 4 and Accessed Angular 4 built in http service using Dependency Injection feature. Used Electron framework for building cross platform Angular 4 application which can run on Mac/ Windows. Extensively worked on Electron IPC to communicate between renderer and the main process. Used Node Package Manage (NPM) as package manager for JavaScript, Bower as package manager for web, GULP and webpack for task runner. Used NOSQL databases like couchDB, Cloudant as remote databases and PouchDB as local database to sync the data from remote to the application to work offline. Worked on google app engine, google datastore database and Involved in deploying the web application to google app engine. Implemented python scripts to get read the data from google sheets and created databases in google datastore. Written scripts in python for email job to send emails as soon as the orders gets submitted using Mandrill and the MailChimp API. Extensively worked on the Protractor Automation for Angular 2 application for end to end test cases and unit test cases using Jasmine and karma. Used Sublime Linter, ts - lint packages to keep our code much cleaner. Making Ajax calls to communicate with the servers and to get the data in the JSON format. Worked with server-side Integration and fetching of data by sending/receiving messages to REST services. Used GIT, Bit-Bucket for source code version control. Worked closely with the project management and marketing team to completely define specifications to help ensure project acceptance. Actively Involved in Understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements and for releasing the enhancements within the specified timeline communicated. Worked in Agile environment with 2-week and 3-week sprint process environments. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 2/4, Angular Material, Angular-Bootstrap, CouchDB, Cloudant, PouchDB, Python, Google Datastore, JSON, TypeScript, Google app engine, GIT, BitBucket, Jasmine, karma, Protractor, Agile. Confidential, West Lake, Texas UI Developer Responsibilities: Closely worked with Business System Analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set f UI Modules been built. Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and Angular Material. Implemented responsive design for different size of devices by using Bootstrap Grid System and SASS to maintain better structure of stylesheets. Used SASS as pre-compiler to generate CSS stylesheets and worked on creating Mixins to reuse the CSS for different html templates. Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application. Created controllers, Services, Directives to collect user data and implement from validation inAngular. Proficiently used custom AngularJS Filter, pipes in the Application. Developed Angular Factories and used Angular Promises for making asynchronous calls. Used Angular JS MVC Framework in the development of the web application to bind the data/model that was retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope. Used Protractor for Automation testing of the Angular js Application. Participated in understanding of Node.js technologies and development tasks. Administrated and supported Node.js application within scope. Used Node.js and Express.js for creating Services. Used MongoDb as database and used Node.js to store data to the database. Designed and implemented the MongoDB schema Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application. Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively. Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers. Created various interactive plug-ins, widgets or design UI/UX. Participated in meetings and discussed business requirements to modify requirement & manage code changes. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, REST APIs, Brackets, webstorm, MS Office, MongoDB, Node.js, Express.js, Bootstrap, Protractor, Jasmine, Git, SVN. Confidential UI Developer Responsibilities: Developed non-functional HTML/5, CSS3 pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with Architect and Business Units. Implemented various JavaScript/jQuery TEMPeffects on the pages. Used Angular js and jQuery library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for the application. Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3. Applied the jQuery widgets like Accordion, Date picker, Drag able, Droppable, Resizable jQuery interactions. Used jQuery High charts for interactive charts on the web application. Used Bugzilla as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis. Responsible for handling cross browser, platform compatibility issues for IE, Firefox, and Safari on both Windows and Mac. Developed and designed XML Schemas to transport and store data. XML was used to simplify data and allow for Platform Changes, as well as making data more available across the applications distributed platforms. Used JIRA extensively for organizing issues, tracking the assigned work, and following team activity. Created database tables and manipulated data using MySQL, SQL server, SQLite. Used Subversion (SVN) as a repository tool and as a version control. Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status. Environment: HTML, XHTML CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Eclipse, Windows, MySQL, JavaScript, AJAX, Code Igniter. Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Closely worked with Business Analyst to understand the business requirements. Developed coding conventions and standards to enhance source code management and increase software maintainability. Used Spring MVC on the front end using JSP, spring tags, spring validation framework. Developed several controller classes as required for the design such as Abstract Wizard form controller, Simple Form controller, multiasction controller. Used JAXB for parsing XML retrieved from the database and populated on the JSP. This xml is received via RMI service call from another application. Used Crystal Reports on the backend for generating reports on Oracle 10g Database. Developed spring RMI services and web services using SOAP and applied IOC (inversion of control). Implemented ANT as a build system with Cruise Control for automatic builds in Development Environment and QA. Designed and developed reporting modules for assessing applications performance and client interaction patterns Developed structure diagrams, behavior diagrams and interaction diagrams during the design using rational rose. Used Hibernate persistence framework on the backend over Oracle 10g database. Used Junit Framework for Unit Testing. Used rational clearcase for version control. Used Log4J logging framework for logging messages with various levels written throughout the Java code. Involved in deploying and configuring the application on Web logic 10. Involved in Coding, Debugging & Code review. Provided development support for System Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Production support. Environment: Java (JDK 1.6), Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, BEA WebLogic 10, Web Services, DHTML, XSLT, HTML, JavaScript, RAD, Crystal Reports, SOAP, RAD, Eclipse 3.5, SOAP, XSD, XSLT, DOM parser, Servlets2.4, JSP 2.0, JAXB, Oracle 10g, Rational Rose 2000, Log 4j, Junit, Rational Clearcase. 