SUMMARY 8 Plus years of experience in User Interface (UI) applications using JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery, JSON, HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap3/4, Angular JS, Angular 2/4/5, React.js, Redux, DOM, AJAX, XML XHTML, XQuery and CSS. Experience in applying the latest software development approaches including MVC. Expertise in building device independent UI designs using both @media queries and frameworks like Twitter Bootstrap. Experience wif preprocessors like LESS, SASS and managed code architecture and scalability. Well versed using JavaScript and jQuery for manipulating the mark - up and data operations using jQuery and AJAX. Exposure usingdirectives, dependency injection, modules and routing in Angular. Having good knowledge in building web pages that changes dynamically using React.js and Backbone.js. Good understanding in implementing web application using Angular JS and React.js framework. Sound Understanding and good Experience wif Object Oriented Programming Concepts and Implementation. Experience of using package managing tools NPM, BOWER and scaffolding tool YEOMAN. Worked extensively wif IDE's like Microsoft Visual Studio Code, Adobe Dreamweaver and Eclipse. Expertise in using debugging tools like Firebug and built in IDE debuggers for troubleshooting existing code. Experience using Google Material Design. Experience in Cross browser compatibility testing and intellectual challenges in User Experience (UX), Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap. Designed and implemented mobile web applications using frameworks such as Cordova and PhoneGap. Having good understanding wif low-level Component Lifecycle. Experience in using test-driven development in JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax-based applications, HTML and CSS. Having experience in using X Query to generate reports and to transform XML data to XHTML. Hands on experience using the version controls like GIT and project management tools like JIRA. Good knowledge of MVC, MVVM, MVP frameworks like Angular.js, React.js and Backbone.js along wif Twitter Bootstrap. Experienced in using web traffic inspecting tools such as Firebug and Fiddler. Has rich experience in databases like MySQL. Monitored and controlled the execution of programs on multiple mainframe platforms. Experience wif Browser testing, knowledge of cross-browser/cross-platform compatibility. Gained excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues wif different versions of browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Google Chrome. Strengths include ability to quickly adapt to new technologies and implement them in the current projects. TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQUERY SASS, JSON, Ajax, Angular JS, React JS, Vue.JS, Node JS, Backbone JS. Architecture & Framework: AngularJS, Angular2/4, React.js, Vue.js, Node.js, Express.js, Require JS, Backbone.js, D3.js, Bootstrap3/4, Jasmin, Karma, Gulp, Mongoose, Redux, Babel. Database: MySQL, MongoDB. IDE & Editors: Visual Studio Code, Sublime, Eclipse Conceptual knowledge: GUI Web Services.: HTML, XML, XSD, XSLT, AJAX, Bootstrap, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery. Query Languages: MYSQL, PL/SQL, MongoDB Programming Language: JavaScript, Java Other Tools: Postman, Tableau, Power BI, Adobe Illustrator, YEOMAN Adobe Photoshop, MS Office, Firebug, Chrome Developers Tool, Jenkins. Design & Control: GIT PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Sr. UI Developer Responsibilities: Designed and developed the application usingAngular 2framework along wifHTML5,CSS3,Type Script,Java Script,Bootstrap,Node.js,NPM,Mongo DB. Developed single page applications usingAngular 2,Typescript,web packandgulp. Hands on Experience onAngular 2technology in rebasing the UI of the application using the techniques inAngular 2. Extensively Worked onCSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Sprites, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Elements & Classes, and CSS Behaviors in CSS. UsedNPMfor installing required node modules and other publishedAngular NPM modules. Extensively worked on Component Driven Architecture. Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application. Worked on bootstrap styles using ngx Bootstrap and PrimeNG for rich User Interface. Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component-based architecture provided by Angular 2. Worked Extensively wifAngular CLIfor creating components, Services, pipes, Directives. Updated the application wif new features ofAngular 4. Worked on new features ofAngular 4like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators. Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next view. Used HttpClient in @angular/common/http which rest on XMLHttpRequest interface in Angular 5. Created custom directives in Angular 2 for reusable components. Worked on Angular 2 concepts such as two-way binding, *ngif and *ngFor structural directives, property binding, services, dependency injection, routing. Utilized Observables for http error handling wif catch and throw RxJS operators. Worked wif Angular 2 component based Redux architecture for authoring complex decorators, services, components, and pipes, working wif animations, routing. Worked on Angular 2 by consuming Restful web services & Used Angular 2 forms like Template Driven forms and Model Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side. Worked wif Gulp to manage project and preprocess SCSS files and setup repetitive task during project initialization. Involved in agile software methodologies usingTEST DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT(TDD). Involved in Angular Test Bed for services. UsedJIRAto keep track ofbugsto reducedowntime, increase productivity, and Communication. Environment: Angular (2/4), Angular CLI, TypeScript, JavaScript, Node.js, NPM, Express.js, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, GIT, WebStorm, TDD, Jasmine, Karma, LESS. Confidential  UI Developer Responsibilities: Developed webpages for smart phones, tablets and personal desktops using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular 2.0, Typescript and JavaScript. Used Angular2 framework wif Typescript features to create Single Page Application. Created Angular components which halps the application to be built on multiple modules. Experience in updating from Angular 2 to Angular 4 and implemented Angular 4 features in existing application. Used Kendo UI for direct filter of data and showing it into the UI Experience in creating services as classes in typescript importing into the Components in Angular2. Good knowledge in optimizing the Angular2.0 Application performance by implementing Lazy loading and AOT compilation. Experience in using Angular 2.0 inbuilt directives also created custom directives. Good understanding of Inter-component communication using '@Input and @Output' decorators. Implementing forms in Reactive approach also having good knowledge in Template drive approach. Good understanding of Observables over Promises. Good understanding routing in Angular2.0, how to pass parameters to routes, nested routes and route guards. Experience in using web-pack module loader for bundling, minifying the code. Using SASS preprocessor to write the styles. Hands on experience in working wif GIT version control and source code maintenance. Using Bootstrap framework for page layouts and responsiveness. Participated in all team meetings and daily scrum calls wif my team. Experience on WebApi's to make a service call from front end code. Used continuous integration (CI) tool such as Jenkins. Coordinated wif web designers for developing a user-friendly application. Experience on using Gulp implementation. Followed linting techniques to organize our code more functional and error free. Hands on experience on CSS preprocessors like SASS. Good knowledge in building cross browser compatibility applications using HTML5 and CSS3. Hands on experience in writing test cases using Jasmine testing framework and karma test runner. Created unit test cases for Angular Components and Services using Jasmine framework and ran those test cases using Karma test runner. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript, Kendo, JSON, jQuery, NodeJS, AJAX, Bootstrap, DOM, Agile (SCRUM), LESS, SASS, Jasmine, GIT, MySQL, SASS, Web services, REST API, CRUD, Junit, Flex. Confidential  UI Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML. Developed JSP's and HTML, CSS and a part of presentation layer using JavaScript and node.js. Developed the User Interface using Angular JS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and XML. Development of custom Angular JS directives, which can be use along wif HTML components for DOM Manipulation. Created various web page layouts using HTML and CSS. Involved in conversion applications - Internal website from HTML toPHPusing content management. Implemented applications in JavaScript, and MySQL. Used Angular JS routers like "UI-router" to establish routing between nested html views. Designed and developed Payment and collection module and delivered successfully wif technologies like Web Service, Spring, JPA. Designed and developed EJB APIs for Subscriber Functionalities Provisioning, Activation, suspend, cancelation using EJB3. Designed and developed UI and backend functionality in JSF, Rich faces, JBoss Seam and JPA, EJB3. Debugged and fixed existed version EJB, Hibernate issues. Handled the UI of the app using Bootstrap3. Wrote small components and efficiently managed routes to handle user events and bind the data. Used session handlers from Node.js to handle user login and cookies to provide authentication during events like page refreshes. Designed, developedand updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS, Dreamweaver and JavaScript. Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server. Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation fromstructure. Followed Agile methodology and iteration planning. Environment: AngularJS, CSS3, RWD, JavaScript, HTML5, jQuery, Bootstrap, SQL, Web Sockets, Maven, Eclipse, JSP, GIT, GitHub, Flux, SASS, LESS, Gulp. Confidential  UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in all the Phases of Software Development Life Cycle, including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application. Developed the UI layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matched requirements. Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX. Worked wif testing tools like IE developer toolbar, Firebug, Chrome or Safari web inspectors. Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS. Converted raw images and layouts from graphic designer into HTML/CSS themes. Expert in CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and preprocessors like SASS. Utilized JavaScript and jQuery to improve overall design and UI of campaign websites. Extracted data in UI for different clients using JSON format. Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and jQuery, jQuery Mobile, in on-going projects. Created Custom Tag Libraries and embedded them and generated unique links in JavaScript and AJAX to track every click using form get method. Implemented SEO techniques on the website. Used GIT for version control. Implemented Ajax functionality using jQuery, JSON and XML for better web-based User Interface. Involved to manage Domain Name Server by using File Transfer Protocol (FTP) client software. Written PL/SQL Procedures, Triggers and Packages using Oracle Database. Environment: AngularJS, jQuery, JavaScript, Ajax, J2EE, SASS, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, XSL, DOM, Bootstrap, GIT. Confidential UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in developing web Page Applications using Angular JS. Worked on Angular Js filter concepts using AngularJS services where the data filter comes from the remote server. Used AngularJS Services such as the module factory, service and provider for easier integration. Developed custom directives in Angular JS that could be re-used like a template across the application and can be re-used to manipulate DOM across the application. Used Angular JS to implement rich functionality in various pages: form validation, grid, search, sort, and pagination. Created many controllers for each page wif dependencies included such as $q, $location, $window, $routeParams and all the services to be used on the controller. Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views wif HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Angular JS. Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing Angular JS, created HTML navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML. Code JavaScript for page functionality and pop up screens. Involved in writing jQuery-based Ajax requests using JQuery.get or JQuery.ajax and JQuery.post. Use Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website that fit all users and devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone. Used Gulp as a task runner to run common tasks as concatenation, minification, compilation of Sass file etc. Worked wif performance tuning such as Image sprites, minification. Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation using JavaScript. Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages. Used different Debuggers like firebug and inspect element. Responsible for developing responsive web pages using techniques like Bootstrap and media queries. Environment: HTML4/5, CSS 2/3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Angular Js, Object-Oriented JS. Confidential  UI Developer Responsibilities: Developed presentation-tier JSP pages in HTML, Implemented jQuery Data Grid control, Validation control and other Widget controls. Worked on JavaScript framework (Node.js) to augment browser-based applications wif MVC capability. Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards. Integrated the AngularJS application wif theRESTfulweb services. Involved inAgileStory point methodologies and full software development lifecycle. Designing, coding, testing, debugging and support. GITwas used for version control systems and source code management. Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc. Developed Web forms/user interfaces using Struts MVC, jQuery and JSP and Hibernate. Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using Flash, CSS, Adobe, Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, and JavaScript wif AEM. Used Ajax effectively to create pagination and wif client-side events like quick search. Involved in JavaScript coding for validations and passing attributes from one screen to another. Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie. Environment: Java, HTML, XHTML, JSP, MVC, W3C, CSS, jQuery, SVG, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, XML, Adobe, Flash, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Agile, GIT, JSON, RESTful. Confidential  UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in discussions wif the System Analyst to identify the technical requirements. Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS. Articulated business strategy and branding issues and to balance these wif user needs and technological constraints. Used JavaScript for custom client-side validation. Designated UI architecture for the internal web application and worked wif designers to construct conceptual Wire-frames and Mockups. Extensively used jQuery in implementing various GUI components in application portal. Involved in various technical and architectural design discussions wif back-end teams as well as front-end team to integrate front-end and back-end. Worked on jQuery to make drop down menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request. Implemented DD Tab Menu in a standard compliant, 2 level tab menus. Developed java script uses CSS to control all its appearance, and plain HTML to implement the entire menu tabs and contents. Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying. Designed web forms using HTML, CSS, jQuery and XML to make the web page look unique. Implemented client-side validations using jQuery/Java script Data annotations to do validations on the Model Data. Involved in doing the easy way of validations in MVC by using Data Annotations. Performed Unit Testing on the entire application. Used Cascading Style Sheets for branding purposes and user look and feel. User AJAX server centric control's like Script manager, Script manager proxy and update panel for partial post back. Used XML and XSL for data transformations. Environment: - HTML, XHTML CSS, JavaScript, Java, web services, jQuery, AJAX, XML, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Eclipse, Windows. Confidential UI Developer Responsibilities: Worked on consuming JSON object creation, parsing on both clients as well as server side. Used CSS based design techniques to eliminate table-based layouts, and speed page loading. Developed widgets using HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery Components and JavaScript. Implemented Ajax Frame works, jQuery tools examples like Auto Completer, Tab Module, and Calendar and Floating windows. Developed web services components using XML, SOAP and Axis. Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript. Developed the jQuery widget wif functionality of progressively enhancing the look and feel of web page. Created an actions menu wif jQuery that appears when checkboxes are selected Used AJAX wif jQuery controls for Listing all scripts in a grid and can edit it in the grid which will reflect in the database table as well (like margins). Implemented animations using JavaScript and jQuery. Progressively enhance form elements wif jQuery to add more robust functionality. Made the rating range configurable that halps to modify it whenever changes occur. Implemented more number of skins, and combination of the CSS sprites. Used jQuery document to generate API documentation for JavaScript code. The output of jQuery Doc is API documentation formatted as a set of HTML pages including information about methods, properties, custom events and inheritance for JavaScript objects Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS, EXT JS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, ECLIPSE, MOCKUPS and WINDOWS. 