SUMMARY Over 8 years of experience inUIdevelopment, Rich User interface design, development, documentation, standards, media (Screen, Mobile, Touch interface) Strong experience in the Web Applications Development using HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript, Typescript, Angular JS/2/4/5, React JS, Query, JSON, XML, XSLT, ECMA Script and AJAX. Experience with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular JS, EXT.JS, Require.js, Backbone.JS, node.js and Bootstrap.JS. Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Programming (OOP) Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation. Experience in consuming services and integrating with AngularJS application. Extensive experience in working with AngularJS to implement Single page applications (SPAs) using Directives, Modules, Expressions, Routers, Views, Model and Controller. Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Node.js and Express.js. Hands on Experience in building scalable MEAN stack applications using MongoDB, Express.js, Angular JS and Node.js. Hands on experience working with J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, and SOAP/Rest web services, Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring AOP and Spring ORM and Hibernate while using Javascript frameworks such as Angular JS to build a fully fledged application using MVC design patterns. Knowledgeable with RDBMS concepts like writing SQL Queries, Functions, Stored Procedures and PL/SQL Packages and also No - SQL databases like MongoDB. Experience in calling REST (Web Service) services from JavaScript and processing JSON payloads. Great experience in working different testing tools such as Selenium, Jasmine, Karma and Protractor. Experience in using various IDE's, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Eclipse, Adobe Photoshop. Expertise in using source code control systems such as GIT, SVN, JIRA, and Jenkins. Experienced in complete SDLC life cycle includes Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment. Experienced working in bothAGILEand Waterfall based development environment and participating in SCRUM sessions. TECHNICAL SKILLS UI Web Technologies: HTML/5, CSS2/3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, Typescript, AJAX, J2EE, JSP, jQuery, JSON, Apache, PHP, Redux, SASS, LESS. UI Frameworks: React JS, Angular JS, Backbone.js, node.js, Ext JS, Require JS IDE, HTML Editor: Eclipse, NetBeans, MyEclipse, Edit Plus, Sublime text, Webstorm, Notepad ++, IntelliJ Version Control: Perforce, CVS, GIT, SVN, VSS Web/App Servers: Apache Tomcat, HTTP Web Server Methodologies: Agile, Rational Unified Process(RUP), Kanban, Waterfall, CI/CD, TDD Databases: Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, Mongo DB Tools: JIRA, HP QC, Jenkins, Maven, Selenium, Jasmine, Karma and Protactor PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Melville, NY Sr. UI Developer Responsibilities: Developing web pages by using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript and working knowledge of Backbone.js, node.js, Bootstrap.js, and Angular 4/5. Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, jQuery, ES6, JSF, AJAX and JSON. Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls withJavaScriptand jQuery. Used Angular 4/5 as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server. Used the node.js and Backbone.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications. Used node.js as a proxy to interact with RESTful services and interacting with MongoDB NoSQL Database. Implemented reactive Angular components using RXJS. Actively involved in using Angular 4/5, Typescript, Bootstrap and HTML5 to enable client-side date to meet specific criteria by applying various validation variables. Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using Ext JS and HTML5. ImplementedAngular 4/5 Components and Services to manipulate and view employee task data. Developed responsive applications using Bootstrap.js, Require.js and node.js, which allowed the same application to be optimized for both mobile and desktop resolutions. Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers. Developed various commands and helper classes using core Java mainly following multi-threaded concepts and MVC design patterns for the application. Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages. Worked on merging, committing the branches in the version control GIT and JIRA for issue assignment and development tracking. UsedAgilesoftware development methodology which helps to develop project plans. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Typescript, AJAX, JSON, SASS, XML, Bootstrap, Require JS, node.js, Backbone JS, Angular 4/5, Ext JS, REST, SOA, SDLC, Agile, GIT, Restful, MongoDB, Jira. Confidential, New York, NY Sr. UI Developer Responsibilities: Designed and implemented the whole web site using HTML5, XML, CSS3, Flash,MySQL and JavaScript leveraging the Bootstrap framework. Developed and improved application using MVC Framework Angular JS/2 and Bootstrap and involved in developing various generic JavaScript functions used for validations. Developed single page applications SPAs using Angular JS/2, Typescript to improve page performance. Wrote application level code to interact with the backend Java Spring Services using AJAX and JSON making HTTP requests by importing Headers, Response, RequestOptions and few other from @angular/http. Was responsible to co-ordinate with UX designers, develop and design wireframes, mockups according to client guidelines. Used AJAX frameworks like jQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and involved in performance tuning the website. Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5 & CSS3, Bootstrap. Was involved in server-side RESTful style web services and called them from backbone collections. Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties. Designed business applications using web technologies like advanced level of HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout) based on the W3C standards. Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development and CI/CD(Continuous Integration and Continuous Development) Worked on different new HTML5 and CSS3 features such as Flux, Semantic elements, Geolocation API and few other. Involved in using GIT for project management and version management. Involved in the development of Dynamic loading of web pages using AJAX calls with server pages like PHP and MySQL. FollowedAgilemethodology using JIRA and Confluence tools. Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript, Angular JS/2, node.js, Bootstrap, AJAX, SDLC, SOA, Hibernate, Agile, Jira, jQuery, Adobe Photoshop, XML, RESTful, MySQL, Design Patterns, Eclipse Confidential, Kings of Prussia, PA UI Developer Responsibilities: Developed the web application using Express.js, React JS, node.js, MongoDB, JavaScript. Used React JS to create custom components for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format. Developed React JS forms to manipulate text within HTML views. Used node.js and Express.js to setup the web servers and to integrate services and created forms and sessions using node.js and Express.js to store the user data and provide dynamic views based on the users. Designed and implemented server-side RESTful web services using node.js and Express.js and handled communications to the client side (React JS) using JSON. Worked on server-side using Node.js along with Express.js and connect to the database using Mongoose from MongoDB. Extensively used tools like Webpack to uglify/minify JavaScript files, compile Sass files to CSS, reduce the React JS file size. Used Redux presentational components and containers and for markup styles and data fetching and store updates. Provide layout design based on brand guidelines for maximum usability and focus on user experience. Create user interfaces using front-end code in HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. Perform usability tests to insure cross-browser compatibility. Utilized CSS preprocessors such as SASS to use variables and later compile it to CSS. Designed and implemented different layouts using HTML5 and CSS3. Implemented application styling using Twitter Bootstrap framework. Developed Widgets using JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, XML, HTML5 and CSS3. Designed table less web applications using CSS as per W3C standards. Involved in developing Component level design and defined the usage of AJAX to reuse the network bandwidth efficiently. Created images, logos and icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Photoshop in SVG format. Utilized NPM to create the project structure and update and install packages. Worked with GIT to maintain current and historical versions of source code. Environment: React JS, node.js, Express.js, MongoDB, Mongoose, Twitter Bootstrap, RWD, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, WebStorm, Adobe CS5 Suite, Photoshop, GIT, GitHub, NPM, Webpack, Redux, SASS, LESS. Confidential, Dallas, TX UI Developer Responsibilities: Developed Responsive User Interfaces (UI) and worked on Responsive web design (RWD) pages using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap. Worked extensively on designing CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible. Implemented various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques such as metadata, building inbound and outbound links while designing web pages. Utilized Web sockets and node.js to provide real time support for the Matrix Portal. Handled the UI of the app using React JS. Wrote small components and efficiently managed routes to handle user events and bind the data. Utilized React JS Virtual DOM to update the webpage which resulted in faster load time and rendering. Deployed the web page by using server-side rendering (React JS) which resulted in fast loading and faster I/O operations. Used session handlers from Express.js and node.js to handle user login and cookies to provide authentication during events like page refreshes. Utilized node.js callbacks to provide asynchronous functionality for I/O intensive requests. Initialized and used clusters to provide scalability and restart the processes in case of server failures. Handled the UI of the app using React JS. Wrote small components and efficiently managed routes to handle user events and bind the data. Environment: node.js, Express.js, React JS, AngularJS, CSS3, RWD, JavaScript, HTML5, XML, SEO, Bootstrap, SQL, Web Sockets, Maven, Eclipse, JSP, GIT, GitHub, React-Router, Webpack, Flux, SASS, LESS. Confidential, Pasadena, CA Web/UI Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML. Developed JSP's and HTML, CSS and a part of presentation layer using JavaScript and node.js. Developed the User Interface using Angular JS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and XML. Development of custom Angular JS directives, which can be use along with HTML components for DOM Manipulation. Created various web page layouts using HTML and CSS. Involved in conversion applications - Internal website from HTML toPHPusing content management. Implemented applications in JavaScript, and MySQL. Used Angular JS routers like "UI-router" to establish routing between nested html views. Designed and developed Payment and collection module and delivered successfully with technologies like Web Service, Spring, JPA. Designed and developed EJB APIs for Subscriber Functionalities Provisioning, Activation, suspend, cancelation using EJB3. Designed and developed UI and backend functionality in JSF, Rich faces, JBoss Seam and JPA, EJB3. Debugged and fixed existed version EJB, Hibernate issues. Handled the UI of the app using React JS. Wrote small components and efficiently managed routes to handle user events and bind the data. Utilized React JS Virtual DOM to update the webpage which resulted in faster load time and rendering. Deployed the web page by using server side rendering (React JS) which resulted in fast loading and faster I/O operations. Used session handlers from Express.js and Node.js to handle user login and cookies to provide authentication during events like page refreshes. Designed, developedand updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS, Dreamweaver, and JavaScript. Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server. Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation fromstructure. Developed SQL and PL/SQL scripts for save and execute phases date to retrieve and save to Oracle. Followed Agile methodology and iteration planning. Environment: Express.js, React JS, AngularJS, CSS3, RWD, JavaScript, HTML5, jQuery, Bootstrap, SQL, Web Sockets, Maven, Eclipse, JSP, GIT, GitHub, React-Router, Flux, SASS, LESS, Gulp, Grunt. Confidential, TX UI Developer Responsibilities: Designed web pages using with HTML, CSS based on the W3C standards. Integrated the frontend JQuery UI with backend REST API. Built responsive site using Bootstrap that fits devices of different visual sizes. Involved in Designing, Implementation, Maintenance and Testing of Databases and Web pages. Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS, HTML widgets / libraries for complex UI controls. Responsible for JavaScript / AJAX UI upgrades and improvements. Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented. Experienced in testingWaterfall environments using Selenium Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with JUnit. Wrote the backend to modify the tags in the database using JSON for data transmission. Developed the UI using SWT to add/remove tags. Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server. Designed user-friendly navigation for displaying various sections of data using JQuery. Design and update user Integration with various APIs. Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, SASS, Waterfall, Selenium, JavaScript, REST API, JQuery UI, Bootstrap, XML, Notepad++, Sublime text, AJAX, Junit, JSON, PHP, SWT. Confidential, New York, NY UI Developer Responsibilities: Designed web pages using with HTML, CSS based on the W3C standards. Integrated the frontend JQuery UI with backend REST API. Built responsive site using Bootstrap that fits devices of different visual sizes. ExecutedPHPunit tests and played main role in Domain driven developed and Test driven environment. Involved in Designing, Implementation, Maintenance and Testing of Databases and Web pages. Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS, HTML widgets / libraries for complex UI controls. Responsible for JavaScript / AJAX UI upgrades and improvements. Worked through cross browser compatibility issues with layout and styles for all new CSS that was implemented. Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with JUnit. Wrote the backend to modify the tags in the database using JSON for data transmission. Analyzing the Website traffic and Search Engine Optimization. Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server. Designed user-friendly navigation for displaying various sections of data using JQuery. Design and update user Integration with various APIs. Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, SASS, Agile, Selenium, JavaScript, REST API, JQuery UI, Bootstrap, XML, Notepad++, Sublime text, AJAX, Junit, JSON, PHP, SWT. Confidential  UI Developer Responsibilities: Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation. Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS & JavaScript using Dreamweaver CS3. Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript. Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using AGILE methodology. Designed and added custom UI themes to the web page using Sass. Extensively used CSS for styling the HTML elements. Used AJAX for asynchronously exchanging small amount of data with the server behind the scenes and updating the front-end pages. Created appropriate concept models, site organization, navigation, page layouts and interaction to support company’s needs and goals. Developed HTML prototype documents with CSS Style Sheets. Did Cross - Browser coding, for making pages compatible will all browsers. Enhanced website by creating presenting new static models pages and presenting it to senior management for attracting the customers and existing users. Performed validation of completed sites including the debugging and testing of code. Environment: JavaScript, HTML, SDLC, Agile, PHP, DHTML, Dreamweaver, CSS, Adobe Flash, SQL, Oracle, Windows. 