SUMMARY Over 5+ years of experience in software development life cycle formobile(iOS) and web, which includes understanding requirement specification, working onsoftware design,coding,testing and maintenance. Skilled in developing APIs formiddle ware Framework modules for mobile platforms using Objective C and Swift. Experienced ofiPhone mobile application development and testing on device and simulator using XCode and Objective C. Experience providing prototypes / proof - of-concepts to the business content owners and users Worked on latest versions ofiOS 11.X and XCode 9.X, well versed wif latest changes in the industry. Have working experience on SDK developmentin iOS. Experienced of working oniOS platformandframeworksand customizing it as per requirements. Have experience in Agiledevelopmentmethodology. Have experience in pair programming. Experienced in UX Design, can translate concept design into user interface on mobiles like iPhone, iPad iPod Expertise in usingDesign patternsandobject oriented methodologiesto design software for mobile phones. Worked on various architectures such as MVC, singleton, Facade, Decorator and Adaptor, Delegate and Notification patterns. Expertise in using Core Data, Core Text, Core Animation, Core Graphics. Experienced in using Bluetooth and BLE communications. Involved in various parse level application and aware of parsing of SOAP, XML and JSON formatted services for iPhone and iPad. Experience of using version control and bug reporting tools likeclear case,clear quest,svn, tfsandgitetc. Experience taking a project from scoping requirements through actual launch ofapplication. Experience in handlingWeb ServicesSOAP, XML, JSON RESTFUL. Experience in using AWS( Amazon Web Services) for data storage and access and to monitor app analytics. Experience in using writing web technologies for mobile, which includesadvancedJava script,HTML5, CSS3. Experienced wif Apple Approval Distribution Process, AdHoc Enterprise distribution. Knowledge of professional software engineering practices and best practices for the full softwaredevelopmentlife cycle, including coding standards, code reviews, source control management, build processes, testing, and operations. Was involved inUsability testingof the application during early releases of the application to modify any user experience elements to be changed. Have knowledge on tvOS app development using TVMLKit. Have knowledge on video streaming, bit rate conversion and casting. Have knowledge in using Xamarin to develop native iOS applications and cross platform applications. Experience in Using Debugging tools like Jira. Experience in using continuous integration tools like Jenkins. TECHNICAL SKILLS iOS: Xcode 9.2 and earlier, Objective C, Swift 4, Cocoa pods, Cocoa Touch, BLE and Bluetooth, core data, core animation, AV foundation kit, UI Kit. Software: iOS 11 and earlier, Eclipse, Netbeans, IntelliJ, Android Studio, ionic, visual Studio, Jenkins. Languages: Swift 4 and earlier, Objective C, java, C, C++ Database: SQL server 2008, SQLite Web: HTML 5 and 4, CSS 3, Java Scripts, Angular Js, Node.js Version Control: Svn,git Operating systems: Mac OS 10.13 and earlier. Testing: UI Automation, XCTest, Jira PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Franklin Lakes, NJ iOS developer Responsibilities: Involved in analysis, design and development of the application using XCode. Worked in an agile development environment wif bi-weekly sprints. Worked extensively wif Swift (versions: 2 and 3) and iOS SDK. Developed watchOS version of the application. Experience in build and submission of the app to the iTunes Connect. Used Swift 3.1 along wif the native Objective-C code to make it compatible for either language. Developed the code in object-oriented manner for optimal code re-usability. Developed Custom UIViews based on UIKit Framework. Developed UIViews for the watch application. Used Auto layout feature to adapt UIs to different rotations and screen sizes for universal app. Pre-fetching data for different views for smooth screen transitioning. Worked wif UINavigationView, UITabBarView, UITableView, UICustomCell, and UIAlertView. Used Automatic Reference Counting for memory management. Used pair programming while working wif lead developer. Used pair programming when working wif the testing team. Used Core Graphics and Core animation to create animation views between transition of views. Worked on integrating Map-kit (Apple maps) Used AFNetworking for server RESTFUL calls; Parsed JSON data received from back-end to properly present the content for numerous UITableViews throughout the application. Designed the complete MVC flow for the application wif UI components and controllers to be used for iPhone and iPad. Implemented Delegation pattern to properly update status displays and reading progress made between views of the workflow. Implemented NSNotifications to fire UIAlertViews wif received PUSH notifications information from back-end. Used Apple push Notification Services. Participated in code review using GitHub for creating branches and to push, pull, stash the code from remote repository. Experience in using continuous integration tools like Jenkins. Took care of code review code fixes and bug fixes. Wrote Unit tests and UITests for App stability and performance, used XCTest framework. Performed testing end application for data accuracy and process critical information from multiple inputs simultaneously. Environment: Xcode 9.x, 8.x, iOS 11.x and 10.x SDK, Swift 3.x and 2, iPad, iPhone, iPod Cocoa Touch Framework, MVC, Decorator, Facade UIKit, Carthage, XML-Parsing, Agile-Methodology, Pair programming, XCTEST, TDD, Git, Jira, Jenkins. Confidential, St.Louis, MO iOS developer Responsibilities: Designed and developed the Express Script application on iPad using Xcode, iOS 6 and objective-C. Followed a work data flow principal for design and development. Worked closely wifin a cross functional team of testers and developers. Worked extensively wif Objective C and Cocoa frameworks. Used Core Data Framework for local storage purpose in SQLite in few primary purposes Used Core text for correlating the low level text handling technology wif core graphics framework. Worked wif UIKit Framework for the applications at hand. Added animation between UIViews for smooth transitioning and better user experience. Used the same XIB to design for iPhone 5 and older iPhones by using Auto-layout. Used Bluetooth and BLE to send notifications to the Smart watch. Worked extensively on UItableviewcontroller and made customized table view cells per the client Pre-fetching data for different views for smooth screen transitioning. Worked wif Backend team to display the correct data format in devices. Implemented NSNotifications to fire UIAlertViews wif received PUSH notifications information from back-end. Used Apple push Notification Services. Formatted the Data as per Business rule to display in UI. Used pair programming in code reviews. Worked on web service calls, RESTFul API callings, XML and JSON parsing included in the project. Used JWE for encrypting the user data. For managing the memory Automatic Reference Counting (ARC) is used. Worked on low-level Language like C and C++ for ensuring the security and memory management. Integrated a web-based content made wif HTML5 on a Native app using UI Web View Worked wif GIT to checkout and update the codebase changes Debugging issues at onsite whenever required. Worked wif LLDB and Xcode for debugging. Wrote Unit tests for App stability and performance, used XCTest framework. Environment: iOS9.0, 8.X(iPhone SDK), Mac OS X, Objective C, XCode 7.1, 6.x, Agile Methodology, XCTest, TDD, HTML5, CSS, SOAP, MVC, Façade, JavaScript, JQuery. Confidential, Los Angeles, CA iOS developer Responsibilities: Evaluated technology solution design, research and proposal. Followed a work data flow principal for design and development Worked on UITableViewController and made customized table view cells according to the client. Worked wif subversion to checkout and update the codebase changes. Worked on Agile and scaled Agile, continuous delivery, continuous deployment, and automated testing. Designed and implemented the Continuous Integration process for all the application. Integrated images and Map Kit into the Application. Worked on check deposit using EZ-Deposit. Designed the database and data model for application using SQLite. Implemented the code to perform the CRUD operations to the SQLite Database. Demonstrated ability in handling the memory management. Profiling and performance analysis using X-code instruments. Formatted the data as per business rule to display User interface. Worked on Web Service calls( RESTFul API), JSON. Used JWE for encrypting the user data. Used the same XIB to design for iPhone 5 and older iPhones by using Auto-layout Worked wif SVN to checkout and update the codebase changes. Experienced in continuous integration using Jenkins. Proficient in unit testing the application using JUnit. Tested the application for memory leaks and relevant bugs, fixed the leaks and deployed on different iPhone firmware's to validate the application stability. Used the SoapUI for integration and unit testing of the services. Wrote UITests for App stability and performance, used XCTest framework. Developed Unit tests for testing specific functionality and logic. Environment: Xcode 5.1.1 and earlier,iOS6.x,5.x,iOSSimulator 6.1/6.0/5.1, Objective-C, Cocoa Touch, Cocoa framework, JavaScript, TDD, JQuery, JUnit, SoapUI, Map Kit, Core Location, AVFoundation, SVN, git, MVC, Decorator, Jenkins. Confidential, Boston, MA iOS developer Responsibilities: Performed all tasks from UI design and implementation to writing code for various features. Implemented CoreData for persistent storage of user data. Created models in MVC and development of delegates for updating model information. Created of various views, table views, customized views and popovers. Custom UI implemented wif XIBs. Created of notifications to detect the autorotation in the customized sub views. Redesigned several screens including default application landing screen as per newer wireframe. Developed Navigation between views was mixture of using UINavigationController, UIGestureRecognizer and UIPopoverController. Created custom checklist and sharing them wif selected app users by calling web services through JSON libraries and connecting to SQLite database wif the objective-C interfaces. ImplementedNSURLConnection to integrate wif backend webservices. Managed data and memory management from streamlining code and using various debugging tests. Took care of Code Review, Code Fixes and bug Fixes. Interacting wif QA on deliverables on every iteration and customer feedback implementation. Environment: iOS 5,4.x and earllier, Xcode 4.4,4.6.3, Objective-C, C++, UIKit, JSON, XML, SQLiteMVC, Agile, API, SDKs, UIKit.. Confidential Mobile App Developer Responsibilities: Built the mobile application from the ground up. Developed enterprise level, consumer ready, Android Hybrid Mobile Apps Android/ iOS/ Mobile Web . Android: Developed Android application and working as point of contact for all Android related development. Working on creating Android applications, widgets and additional tools for major Android versions, screen resolutions and device skins. Used latest Android API's and built a framework for communication between Android Java code and the Javascript/JQuery code. Cross-Domain Mobile App: Developed cross platform mobile apps Hybrid App using JQuery, Backbone Model, Collections, Views and JQuery Plugins. Added various features like JQuery Animations, Slides, Dialog, Modal Pop-Ups, Controls, Slide-Out Menu, Slide-Over, Carousal, Action Items, Infinite Scroll, etc. Used Phonegap while building hybrid apps. Built various native features using PhoneGap. E.g.: Video recording playback from wifin the app HTTP HTTPS . Implemented Cordova Child Browser in both Android iOS apps. Used various JQuery Plugins like Calendar control, Carousal control, Video Upload, etc. Mobile Learning: Developed mobile learning applications including video recording playback, device registration based login for internal staff, etc. Experienced in using Cordova Child Browser and Mobile Offline Player. Restful API's: Built restful API's, from scratch, for the mobile apps. API's type: GET, POST, PUT, DELETE. Used latest web services/API's standards for the data. Used AWS (Amazon Web Services) backend APIs to access the data securely. Used AWS for deploying the android app in to the play store. Responsive Design: Built responsive design and used CSS3 Media Queries for the cross platform mobile web applications. SQLite: Developed framework around SQLite to be used for Mobile Offline Interaction wif the app. Used SQL Cipher for full database encryption. Google Analytics: Integrated Google Analytics code for Android iOS apps, as well as Mobile Web application. SASS: Generated CSS files using SASS framework. Debugging: Remote debugging using Weinre. Localization: Added localization support, throughout the mobile mobile-web application. Agile: Working in Agile environment. Active participation in Sprint planning, estimation, code reviews, etc. Build Automation: Automation of Android iOS builds for both Dev QA environments, including TestFlight builds. Mobile Unit Tests: Testing JQuery/Backbone app wif Jasmine behavior-driven-development BDD test framework Sinon.JS for spying, stubbing and mocking data and AJAX calls. Mobile Documentation: Creating Sencha type documentation using JsDuck. Apps type: Business. Apps live in AppStore Google Play. Environment: Android iOS: Eclipse, DDMS, Java, Android SDK, XCODE 4.x, Objective C. Hybrid: Phone Gap, Apache Cordova, Javascript, JQuery/JQuery Mobile, Backbone.js, Underscore.js, Jasmine Unit Tests, iScroll, Swipe.js, Less Framework, JQuery Plugins, Node.js Restful API's: .NET, C, AWS, SQL Agile Tools Used: JIRA 