SUMMARY 5 years of experience in Android mobile app development Familiar with OOP design patterns such as Façade, Abstract Factory, Builder, Singleton, Observer, MVC, MVP, MVVM, Protocols & Delegation, etc. Seasoned Android Mobile developer with over 5 years of experience developing software within Native Android Application development. Proficiency with concurrency programming on Android using either the AsyncTask class, the java Thread class, implementing a Runnable interface or third - party libraries for background processing. Worked with Git (Github and BitBucket) on private repositories for VCS. Experience with tracking user behaviour and usage statistics using Analytics libraries such as Google Analytics. Working experience with a wide array of libraries such as Volley, GSON, Retrofit, Picasso. Experience designing for Tablets and other big screen devices in Android. Proficiency at implementing maintainable and extensible solutions by using Design Patterns to solve recurring problems. Working experience with authenticating the Android client with the server for handling authentication. Experience with Jenkins for Continuous Delivery configured for Android Mentoring capabilities, assessed and code reviewed Jr. Android developers. Working knowledge on using the Firebase suite for Social Networks integration, Push Notifications and Analytics. Experience with writing unit tests using JUnit and Mockito for removing external dependencies on the class by mocking external behavior. Experience implementing information faking libraries for testing and demonstration purposes in order to generate sample data on runtime. TECHNICAL SKILLS Java Android Eclipse Android Studio SQLite AsyncTask Material Design RecyclerView Firebase Google Analytics Push Notifications TDD Agile Design Patterns Instruments tests RESTful Web Service consumption. GIT MVP MVVM Jenkins MVC Singleton OOP Design Unit Testing Multithreading Bluetooth Jira OAUTH2 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Senior Android Developer Confidential, Bellevue, WA Responsibilities: Worked on the networking layer to retrieve information from the web server. Included additional user profile and store publications information to the local SQLite database. Improved the performance of the item grid implementation from a GridView to a RecyclerView, decoupling the data from its visual representation and introducing to the current implementation the ViewHolder pattern. Optimized the time it took to load images throughout the application using a cache. Worked on the integration of a new payment processor on the application. Worked on the support for additional languages and internationalized images. Modified the Gradle build files to in corporate an internal library. Added Push Notification support using Firebase. Unit Tests were included for several sections of the code. The project was managed under a custom Agile approach. Android Developer Confidential -Chicago, IL Responsibilities: Worked on an initial tour where users would learn about the application usage basics. Achieved using a custom ViewPager implementation. Incorporated an additional Analytics framework. Added persistent storage of account and Ventra card information. Implemented a Content Provider on the application as a middle layer abstraction on the access to the SQLite internal storage for maintainability and sharing information with other applications. Worked on the authentication of the application with the server to handle secure communications. Implemented a custom hamburger menu to in corporate into the application to allow users get to the different application sections by swiping at the edge of the screen. Worked on the general design and user experience with in the application in order to be simple and engaging. Functionality developed was Unit Tested using the built in JUnit testing framework in Android Studio. Worked on the PayPal payments support on the application. Involved development on the applications networking module, SQLite storage and implementing the PayPal Mobile SDK. The project was managed and developed under an Agile methodology. The team was comprised of 2 Android developers, 1 QA and 1 designer. Android Mobile App Developer Confidential, San Francisco, CA Responsibilities: Worked on the server authentication of the application to the server. Worked on loading online coupons directly to the users Shopper’s Card and its shopping list. Implemented an online shopping list that you can update and use any time. Enabled the display of Weekly Ads and quickly add items to your shopping list. Developed the ability to scan QR codes within the application using the ZXing Library. Used Fragments to handle reusable view segments. Consumed Restful web services to download data from the web server on a background thread. Prepared the new listing information, signed the APK and uploaded the application to the store. Created a custom navigation drawer to easily access the different sections of the application. The project was under an Agile environment. Worked with Eclipse and the ADT Plugin. Jr. Android Developer Confidential, Atlanta, GA Responsibilities: Worked on the storage of information for offline access using a Content Provider and as the backend, the internal SQLite database and the filesystem. Worked on the implementation on the application side of a network communication scheme required by a new API version on the RESTful server. Improved performance and stability of the networking communications layer by replacing the AsyncTask implementation with an implementation using AsynctaskLoader. It not only handled better the configuration changes such as device rotation, but additionally, several memory leaks were fixed. Collaborated on the Material Design migration of the application views for a better, engaging user experience and a consistent look with the system’s look and feel. Added analytics events required for the developed functionalities. Developed unit tests and UI tests using JUnit, Mockito, Espresso respectively. Worked under Scrum in an Agile oriented environment. The team was integrated by 6 Android developers, 3 QA and 5 full stack engineers. Web Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Led front-end development and assisted with back-end programming for website overhaul. Increased web traffic 125% by improving navigation, creating dynamic media sections, and adding social media plugins. Developed API platform for segmentation, personalized recommendations and omni-channel messaging. Improved performance and stability of the networking communications layer by replacing the AsyncTask implementation with an implementation using AsynctaskLoader. It not only handled better the configuration changes such as device rotation, but additionally, several memory leaks were fixed. Collaborated on the UI Design migration of the application views for a better, engaging user experience and a consistent look with the system’s look and feel. Added analytics events required for the developed functionalities. Developed and UI tests using JUnit, Mockito, Espresso respectively. Worked under Scrum in an Agile oriented environment.