SUMMARY 3+ years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, testing and deployment of mobile applications in Android. Extensive experience in design, development, testing and deployment of Android Applications 2+ years of experience in JAVA with Threads, Collections, IO streams, Socket programming Expertise in designing, developing, porting and debugging applications for Android Experience in Memory management and optimization of the applications Experience in porting of the application to different handsets and OS platforms 4+ years of experience in C++ and Data structures programming Deep knowledge of Android SDK,NDK and Android OS versions from 2.3 to 4.4 Discussed requirements with different teams to create application and website. Created mockups and Use Cases from scratch. Experience working in an Agile environment Experience in handling and managing a team Hands on experience working on different platforms like Android,J2ME, Kindle and BlackBerry Expertise in 3D APIs like JSR184,OpenGLES Strong understanding of web services design and experience in XML, JSON format and using them for Android applications. Experience with HTTP GET and POST Requests and parsing different types of responses. Good knowledge in preparing design documentation and UML diagrams Experience with multiple life cycle methodologies and design methods including AGILE, SCRUM, Test Driven Development and Water Fall Model. Experience with version control repositories like Tortoise SVN and CVS TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Language:  HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, Bootstrap, Java, Kotlin, SQL, XML, PHP Tools: /Database: MYSQL, MS SQL Server, SQLite, Eclipse, Android Studio, Genymotion, IntelliJ, Git, Github Framework:  JQuery, JSON, AJAX, RectiveX, Struts PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Android Developer Responsibilities: Developed android application for restaurant use to take instance order with special request, view table status and history using principles of Kotlin Android with XML. Participated in Client meetings, Application designing & process flows Integrated different staff logins with session security and authorization facility to access all data with relational databases SQLite. Worked on SQLite to store command and login history. Implemented front - end application activity design using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap. App has a facility of exporting all the reports of business of the day into Microsoft excel and Microsoft Word from JSON which stored and updated using AJAX calls (GET, POST). Implemented Wi-Fi printing of order by chef directly in kitchen using Google Cloud Print. Environment: Kotlin Android, SDK, XML, SQLite, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX (GET, POST), Google Cloud Print Confidential Android Developer Responsibilities: Developed above described applications to edit and filter photos with allowing all privileges on phone using Android SDK with API level 23 using Android Studio. Used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Bootstrap to build responsive UI. Implemented Fresco Image loader for faster access of photos Using JavaScript Library. Designed with Auto and Extract mode to make transparent background using Appbuilder function and Pixel Shader algorithm. Confidential Responsibilities: Developed android application to secure our mobile applications from others by adding lock system using Eclipse. Implemented Pattern and PIN Lock using MaterialPatternlockView Library with supports XML attributes for customization. Included MD5Hash Algorithm to encrypt the screen pattern and set the screen code value. Designed different UX themes using HTML5 and CSS3. Environment: Android SDK, Android Studio, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Eclipse, XML Confidential Web Developer Responsibilities: Implemented 2:1 binary user friendly tree using Web2.0 Standards in PHP and tree dynamic designing using JavaScript Framework which is reliable and easy to operate. Provision for credit card Payment Gateway Integration. Used MySQL database to store users and handle reward transaction details. Implemented security validation of web site using SQL Injection, XSS. Environment: JavaScript, Payment Gateway, MySQL, SQL Injection, XSS 