SUMMARY Over 8+ years of experience as a Front end web developer in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML/HTML5, XML, DHTML CSS/CSS3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, React Js, Redux, ES6, Web pack, Flex, JQuery, JSON, Node,js, Ajax, JQUERY Bootstrap. 4+ Years of experience inReact Js, Redux, ES6, Web pack and Flex Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM. Extensive knowledge in developing single - page applications (SPAs). Working knowledge of Web protocols and standards (HTTP HTML5/XHTML/XHTML-MP, CSS3, Web Forms, XML, XML parsers) Created User Interfaces for Mobile/Tablet/Desktop using HTML5 & CSS3 Good experience on customizing CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and Foundation using CSS pre-processors LESS or SASS and Compass. Expertise in implementing easy to use Bootstrapplugins for building carousel, accordion, modal windows etc. Expertise in analyzing the Document Object Model (DOM) Layout, DOM Functions, and Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar. Expertise in React Jsframework to develop the SPA. Expertise in React Jsand working with React Flux architecture. Expertise in creating Custom Reusable React Components Library Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites Experience in using React Jscomponents, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept. Good Experience in React Js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts. Expertise inReact Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more. Expertise in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of Future Pages. Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library. Expertise in using Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services. Experienced in working with Node.jsand NPM modules like http-server, Marathon, inquirer, path, mongo DB, Micro Services, Request, Elastic Search, express, luck, spark and templating engines. Experience in Node environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Gulp, and Groovy Bower. Knowledge of utilizing cloud technologies including Amazon Web Services (AWS), Expertise in RESTful, SOAP web services to integrate between Application to Application Experience with front-end development with back-end system integration. Proficient in using Unit.jstesting framework along with Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Mocha test runners Expertise in using bug tracking tools like JIRA. Experience in Version Control tools like GIT, SVN for Source Code version management. Experience in Jenkins. Expertise in using IDE tools such as Notepad ++, Web Matrix, Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor, IntelliJ IDEA, and Web Storm Ability to work effectively while working as a team member as well as individually. Excellent communication and Inter-Personal Skills, well organized, goal oriented. TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies: HTML, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, WordPress, JSON, Twitter Bootstrap, React JS, Angular JS 1.x, Express JS, Node.js, GitHub, JAVA, J2EE Development tools: Eclipse, Web Matrix, Web Strom, Bonita, Sublime, Dreamweaver, and Notepad++. Debugging tools: Firebug, Bugzilla, Chrome Developer Tools, IntelliJ. Frameworks: React JS, Angular JS (1.x), Node JS. Servers: IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic 8.1, J Boss, HTTP Web Server. Platforms: Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP/Vista, Sun Solaris 9/10, IBM-AIX 5.2/5.3, Linux 5/6. Methodologies: Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML Water fall Database: MONGO DB, PostgreSQL, Spunk data storage (Big data), Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, SQL Server 2000, 2005 & 2008; IIS 6.0/7.0 Frond End Tools: CorelDraw, Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Illustrator Testing Tools and Logging Frame Works: Junit3.8/4.0, Load runner, Jasmine, Selenium, T-probe, Easy Mock Programming Languages: C, C++, JAVA, MySQL, C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net, web Services. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Irving TX UI Developer/ React Developer Responsibilities: Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using HTML5, HTML, CSS and Client side scripting using JavaScript. Used JavaScript libraries to create slider and page-turning animations on calendar widgets. Used ReactJs virtual DOM instead of regular DOM for improved efficiency and performance. Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a SinglePageApplication (SPA). Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework using React JS. Used the feature of ReactJS of running the server and rendering the virtual DOM, returning to the browser as a regular page. Involved in transpiling, bundling and developing Reactcomponents for the partner homepages using React.js. Migrated the code to React.js-with Redux. Used Reactflux to polish the data and for single directional flow. Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency. Created Reusable component and wired them installing great router. Used Redux Async actions to make the app fully asynchronous. Created flux stores to migrate an existing fluxapp to redux. Participated with SQA team in bug thrashing sessions to discuss and resolve bugs that were reported in JIRA. Designed web pages and used applications that meet business and user goals through a positive user experience. Responsible for creating the screens with table less design following W3C standards. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, React.js, Redux, Flex, AJAX, XML, JSON, GIT. Confidential, Chicago IL UI Developer/React Developer Responsibilities: Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React Jsand Ajax. Developed React Jspages, Web services calls and AJAX calls for the application. Used React Jsin development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope. Worked on Front end by using JavaScript. Developed user interface by using the React Js, Flux for SPA development. Implemented client side Interface using React Js. Worked with ReactJs components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept. BuildReact components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages. Responsible for developing a front-end application using React Jsand FLUX architecture for internal teams productivity use. Experienced in React Jsand working with React Flux architecture for developing Single Page Applications SPAs. Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React Js. Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3. Used Firebug and Chrome Developer Tools for debugging and for element styling. Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the Mongo DB for the application on devices. Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status. Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub. Made the application responsive using Bootstrap and CSSMediaQueries. Involved in implementing Queries to the backend MongoDB database using Http service to fetch JSON contract. Experienced in implementing CRUD database operation on such as MongoDB. Used Jasmine and Karma as end to end testing tools for debugging and software quality insurance. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, React Js, Flux, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, React JS, Redux, ES6, Web pack, Flex, Ajax, JSON, REST APIs, Firebug, Git, MongoDB, Jasmine, Karma, Media Queries, Sublime. Confidential, Mountlake terrace, Washington UI Developer/React JS Developer Responsibilities: Worked on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers. Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS,React.js, Redux, Flex, NodeJS, Mongo DB, Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behaviour such as variable, mixing, operations and functions. Worked on ReactJS Virtual Dom andReactviews, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags. Involved to implement various screens for the front end usingReact.jsand used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library. Worked in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages. Responsible for ReactUI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid. Used ReactJS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components Used React-autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage. Configured Web pack to execute linters, magnifiers, pre/post-processors, tests, transpires, etc. based on build target. Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords. Developed the Reactcontainer and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable). Developed the flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency. Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage modules & used it to install useful tools as Grunt, and Express. Developed the application on NodeJSplatform using JavaScript programming * Implement modules into NodeJSto integrate with designs and requirements. Developed single application to render dynamically based on the JSON from the NodeJSserver Fetch data from mongo DB using Mongoose of Node.js. Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between Server side to Client Side * Worked with Mocha unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code. Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing. Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows. Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication. Environment: HTML 5, CSS3, Sass, Less, Bootstrap, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery,ReactJS, Redux, thunk Saga, Mobx, Node.js, Express, Mongoose, MongoDB, My SQL, JSON, Git, Restful API, AWS, JIRA, Jest Enzyme and Jenkins. Confidential Front End Developer Responsibilities: Participated in Multi-tire application development environment. Communicated with Business Analyst System to know the technical requirements for the project. Used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to Design Front End Screens. Engaged in checking the website functionality with JavaScript, CSS and HTML. Created CSS styles to keep up the consistency of all screens all through the application and situating of screen objects. Examining the web page on cross- browser compatibility to fix the bugs pertaining to different browsers. Used to update templates and create additional functionalities by using jQuery. Worked with the Object Oriented Programming concepts such as inheritance etc. Used different JavaScript’s and JS libraries, AJAX for validation and for different interactive features. Created different modules such as Admin, User, and Job Folders Used jQuery to communicate CSS and HTML script with JavaScript functions to gain dynamism functionality to the web pages. Participated in development of JSP. Used JUNIT test cases for developing Involved in developing PL/SQL code for handling data Responsible for all client side validations and implementing business logic based on user selection using JQuery and JQueryUI. Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web services using AJAX, JSON and XML. Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers. Extensive use of spring (IOC, MVC), Struts. Developing and maintenance of Software applications using SPRING, HIBERNATE, JAVA/J2EE. Used Firebug, FirebugLite, and IE developer toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility. Used waterfall model of software development. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSP, Eclipse, XML, JSON, SVN, PL/SQL, Windows. Confidential Front End Developer Responsibilities: Developed UI for Web platform using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON. Created several JSP pages as common library that included in the other pages as standard modules like portlets. Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins, AJAX, JavaScript. Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery, JavaScript. Worked extensively with the backend team to integrate the HTML code into JSPs. Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Restful Web Services using AJAX, JSON. Co-ordinate with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements analyzed and designed the business requirements to documented and implemented. Created various web page layouts using HTML and CSS. Validated input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server. Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) in web pages to separate presentation from structure Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application. Tested/De-bugged web browser using Firebug. Environment: HTML, CSS, Java, JSP, SERVLETS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Oracle, TOMCAT server, RESTful Services, Eclipse 