SUMMARY Over 8+ years of experience in Front end development which includes 4+ Years of experience in React JS Developer and 4 Years of experience in web development. Expertise in using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery and also experience in making web page cross browser compatible. Expertise in developing web pages in Responsive Design using jQuery, JSON, AJAX, ReactJS Expertise in developing web pages using HTML/HTML5, XML, DHTML CSS/CSS3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, Flex, J Query, JSON, Node.js, Ajax, JQUERY Bootstrap. Expertise in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM. Expertise in developing single - page applications (SPAs). Experience on customizing CSS frameworks like Bootstrap and Foundation using CSS pre-processors LESS or SASS and Compass. Expertise to use Bootstrap plugins for building carousel, accordion, modal windows etc. Expertise in analyzing the Document Object Model (DOM) Layout, DOM Functions, and Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar. Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA Expertise in mobile software applications. Expertise in React JS and working with React Flux architecture. Expertise in working with Redux architecture using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites Expertise in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept. Expertise in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts. Expertise in creating Custom Reusable React Components Library. Expertise in working with Node.JS and NPM modules like http-server, Marathon, inquirer, path, mongo DB, Micro Services, Request, Elastic Search, express, luck, spark and templating engines. Experience in Node environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Gulp, Groovy Bower. Strong in using the Node.js and Require.jsandMVC Frameworks in the development of the web application Expertise in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications usingJAVA along with spring, Servlets. Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using AJAX, JSON. Knowledge of utilizing cloud technologies including Amazon WebServices (AWS), Microsoft Azure Blob and Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF). Expertise in video coding by using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. Expertise in RESTful, SOAP web servicesto integrate between Application to Application Proficient in using Unit.js testing framework along with Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Mocha test runners Expertise in Bug tracking tools like JIRA, HP Quality Center and Bugzilla Expertise in Version Control tools like CVS, GIT, SVN and Clear-Case for Source Code version management. Expertise in Jenkins and Mevan Expertise in using IDE tools such as Notepad ++, Web Matrix, Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor, IntelliJ IDEA, and Web Storm Ability to work effectively while working as a team member as well as individually. Excellent communication and Inter-Personal Skills, well organized, goal oriented. TECHNICAL SKILLS UI Web Technologies:  HTML, HTML5, CSS3,SASS, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, WordPress, JSON, Twitter Bootstrap, React JS, Reduct JS, Flex, Express JS, Node.js,GitHub IDE, HTML Editor:  Eclipse, Web Matrix, Web Strom, Bonita, Sublime, Dreamweaver, and Notepad++. Databases:  MONGO DB, PostgreSQL, Spunk data storage (Big data), Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, SQL Server 2000, 2005 & 2008; IIS 6.0/7.0 Frameworks:  React JS, Redux, Flex and Node JS. Languages:  C, C++, JAVA, MySQL, C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net,web Services. Platforms:  Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP/Vista, Sun Solaris 9/10, IBM-AIX 5.2/5.3, Linux 5/6. Debugging Tools:  Chrome Elements Inspector, Firebug, IE Tester. Application/webservers:  IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic 8.1, Boss,HTTP Web Server. Testing Tools and Logging Frame Works:  Junit3.8/4.0, Load runner, Jasmine, Selenium, T-probe, Easy Mock Methodologies:  Agile, Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML Water fall PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Dallas TX UI Developer/ React JS Developer Responsibilities: Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, J Query and JavaScript. Design develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery and React.JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website. Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table. Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites. Implement modules into Node Js to integrate with designs and requirements. Created proof-of concept using responsive web design, Node.js, React.js,HTML5 and CSS3. Implemented user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development. Implemented clientside Interface using React JS. Build stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages. Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application Involved to using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept. Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js. Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Dragabble Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage. Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using react. Used Excel Builder 3rd Party open source library and tweak it to make sure it will work with IE11. Used flickity.js for creating carousel-images. Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more. In Phase Two, worked closely with the Back-End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux. Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services. Added Dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions. Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree. Optimized animation logic with optimistic functions to increase performance in rendering. Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls. Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods. Created social login using gigya. Integrated the social accounts with the express account. Have worked on AWS for fetch the pictures files from AWS to UI Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application. Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub. Used JIARA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis. Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code. Extensively used debugging tools such as Firebug and IE Dev tools to investigate the issues and fix the bugs. Wrote code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in IE 7, 8, 9 and FF. Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for fixing of Issues Interacted with Customers and development teams for Fix the Issues. Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team. Environment: HTML 5, CSS3,Sass,Less, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery,Ajax,ReactJS,Redux, Flex, My SQL, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, Git hub, Restful API, AWS,JIRA, Jasmine and Web Strom Confidential, San Jose, CA UI Developer/React JS Developer Responsibilities: Work done an Agile (Scrum)Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers. Involved designing in webpage susing HTML5,CSS3,JavaScript,Bootstrap,SASS, LESS, React.js, Redux, Flex, Mongo DB, Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions. Worked on ReactJS Virtual Dom and Reactviews, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags. Implemented variousscreens for the frontend using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library. Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept. Responsible for React UI and architecture.Building components library,including Tree,Slide-View,and Table Grid. Implemented stableReactcomponents and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages. Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components. Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage. Configured Web pack to executelinters,magnifiers,pre/post-processors,tests,transpires,etc.basedon build target. Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords. Implemented React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable). Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format usingReact. Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency. Have worked on AWS to integrate the server side and client side code. Experience in RESTful web servicesto integrate between Server side to Client Side Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code. Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing. Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows. Used HPQuality Center to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication. Environment: HTML5, CSS3,Bootstrap,SASS,LESS,JavaScript,J Query, React JS, Reduct, Flex, Web Strom, JSP, MS Office,HP Quality Center, Jasmine, GitHub, and Jenkins. Confidential, New York, NY UI Developer/React JS Developer Responsibilities: Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements. Design, develop and tests HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and React JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website. CSS styles were developed to preserve the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects. Integrating JavaScript libraries ( React-Bootstrap, High charts, Data tables). Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development. Involved in using React JS components Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept. Worked closely with the back-end team to display data using the Custom components, Library components, and Redux. Implemented various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library. Used web services SOAP and RESTful for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON. Coded to implement AJAX based application by fetching the response from back-end REST API as a part of JSON. Maintaining parent and child elements by using State and Props in React JS. Architected and Developed for large scale JavaScript application with React JS. Used React-Router to turn application into SPA. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters. Experience in working GIT for branching, tagging, and merging. Developed unit tests with Mocha. Thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing. Interacted with Testing team, Scrum Masters, and Business Analysts for fixing the issues which are reported by testing team. Involved in Agile methodologies and full SDLC of designing, coding, testing, debugging, and support. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, Node JS, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Mocha, Firebug, Agile Development, JIRA, Mongo DB, Jasmine. Confidential UI Developer Responsibilities: Designed the Front End applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery. Worked on feature developments for the Growth team and projects handed down from the executive team, focusing primarily on HTML, CSS/SCSS, and JavaScript development. Provided time estimates for front-end development on projects, consulted with project managers and clients on front-end development tasks, managed developer resources, provide insight into user interface design, and interacted directly with clients to answer any questions or concerns. Developed UI screens using JSP, Struts tags and HTML. Used JakartaStruts Framework, based on the Model View Controller architecture for rapid application development and ease of maintenance. Designed tables to access the database in Oracle and involved in writing PL/SQL, StoredProcedures, and Triggers. Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units. Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML. Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs. Designed new classes and functionalities using various JQUERY components for CRM application for customer service. Tested cross browser compatibility issues between multiple browsers. Facilitated discussions with Systems Analyst to identify technical requirements. Developed and designed the various screens and its architecture in accordance to UI Specs. Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing. Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Apache Tomcat, EJB, Servlets, JNDI, JMS, Oracle 9i, HTML, XML Web Services, My Eclipse, SOAP, J-Unit, ANT, Rational Rose, Clear Case. Confidential UI Developer Responsibilities: Worked with clients and senior user experience designers to understand the branding strategies and design goals to define strategy, layout and features for the web sites/applications design. As a UX designer, led stakeholders throughUXdesign process, from identifying business goals, defining. Design and technical requirements, created and demonstrated interactive wireframes to guide decision-making Created elegantUXand UI for responsive web, mobile, mobile-web and desktop applications utilizing Ax- Urea, Adobe CS, and invasion. Collaborating with the branding and marketing team to design mockups and website design prototypes, icons, graphic design elements, style guides and interface elements. Developed HTMLprototype and UI deliverable such as wireframes, screen mock-ups and interface design. Generated team member’s proficiency in specified skills and knowledge using skills and matrix. Met with clients directly to understand the graphic design work requirements and delivered design to the clients with in deadline and received feedback and ratings for the work. DesignedLOGO,broachers, posters, illustrations for solutions marketing, presentations for project proposals and prepared communication materials according to the client requirements. Developed CSS3 style sheet to give gradient effects. Devolved page layout, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging. Involved in designing and implementing Web2.0Rich UI for Self-Service Application using JQueryAjax framework and widget based JavaScript programming model. Designing and developed User Interface web Forms using Fasces CSS, Adobe Creative Suite. Video Editing using Adobe Premier Pro. UV Unwrapping texture painting, Texturing and lighting for 3D models using Maya, AdobePhotoshop, 3D Body paint,3D Architecture, Vehicles and Prop Modeling using Maya. Environment: HTML,DHTML,CSS3,JavaScript,JQuery,AJAX,Bootstrap,Backbone.js,ResponsiveDesign,XML, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Firebug, JSON, Wireframesand Waterfall 