SUMMARY 8+ years of experience in IT Industry working as an IBM Integration Bus Developer, WebSphere Message BrokerDeveloper, and Consultant. Extensive experience in Software Development Life Cycle using Agile Scrum best practices. Lead and participated in the design and implementation of large and architecturally significant applications in Financial, Healthcare, Marketing and Retail services. Proficient in Implementing integrated solutions using SOA, EAI, MOM and B2B integration architectural designs. Excellent experience in Integrating Enterprise applications to provide an integrated solution across the organization and integrating In - house applications with third party vendor applications to provide complete business solutions. Experience in designing and documenting Technical Detailed Design and APIartifacts. Extensive experience in developing services using IBM Integration Bus and WebSphereMQ. Installation, Configuration, Design, Development, Deployment, Tuning, Maintenance and Troubleshooting of IBM IntegrationBus are my day to day activities. Integrated IBMIIB/WMB with SAPSystems. Experience in using BAPI’s and IDOC’s for Synchronous and Asynchronous transactions. Experience in integrating ERP and CRM Enterprise Information Systems with PeopleSoft applications. Experience in Designing, Developing, Implementing and supporting services using SOA appliances. Expertise using IBM WebSphere Transformation Extender (WTX) product suite and IIB/WebSphere Message Broker (WMB) to develop Data mapping and Integration solutions. Experience in SOAP, Restful and HTTP broker protocols. Experience in implementing Message Broker solutions with JDBC, ODBC, WSDL, WebServices, XML and XSD. Experience in working with EDI Format Data Modelling, building EDI schemas using MRM and DFDL parsers. Experience in using IBM defined DFDL schemas for EDI. Proficient in designing and implementing Publish/Subscribe design patterns. Well experienced in working with Data Modelling, Parsers, Data Integration and Data Conversion in an Industry accepted standards. Have a good track record of building Complex, Efficient and High performance applications. Migrated Java/web and Message Broker applications to the newer versions as per the organizational requirements. Excellent troubleshooting skills in resolving complex application, data and infrastructure issues. Strong experience in high availability techniques such as clustering and workload Management. Experience in working with application servers like WebSphere Application Server, WebSphere Message Broker, IIB, WebSphereMQ, WebSphere ProcessServer, Web Logic Server and Web Servers like MicrosoftIIS, IBMHTTP Servers and Apache Web Servers. Hands on experience in Relation Databases like Oracle, MSSQLServer and techniques like SQL/queryoptimization, PL/SQL, Java stored procedures and JDBC. Experienced in automation administrative tasks using Shell Scripting and IBMRAF. Good experience in working with UNIX, Linux, AIX, Windows, SolarisOS and Proficient with MessageBrokerRuntime on UNIX/Linux/Windowsplatforms. Experience with IBMIIB, WebSphere MessageBroker, IBMMQ, IBMWQM Installation, Configuration, Administration and Troubleshooting. Good Knowledge on source code repositories like Git, SourceTree\BitBucket, AtlassianCloud, IBM ClearCase, IBM ClearQuest, IBMRTC, CVS and SVN repositories. Capable to lead development team from a technical, professional and project perspective. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, proficient problem solver, can acquire new skills quickly and thrive in a collaborative team environment. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: Java, ESQL, C++, .Net, SQL & PL/SQL. Middleware Technologies: IBM Integration Bus (IIB), IBM Message Broker, MQFTE, IBM MQ, Oracle SOA Suite, OSB, TIBCO BW, EMS, RV, Administrator, SOA,Tibco Adapters File Adapters, JDBC Adapters, SAP R/3 Adapters, MQ Series Adapter. Technologies: IBM IIB\WMB, IBM Data Power, IBM ESB, Java, J2EE, EJB’s, Servlets, JSP, JMS, JDBC, JNDI, SOAP/REST Web Services, WSDL, XML, XSD, Ant, HTML, UNIX, Shell Script. Scripting Languages: JACL, Jython, Shell, Perl,UNIX shell scripting, Linux scripting, HTML, and JavaScript. Application Servers/Portal Server: IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, IBM WebSphere Portal and Server. Monitoring Tools: Tivoli, Nagios, ITCAM, Wily Introscope, HP Site Scope, BMC Patrol. Web Technologies: SOAP over (HTTP, JMS), WSDL, UDDI, JDBC, HTML, JSON, REST Services. Version Control/ Repository Tools: SVN, JIRA, Clear Quest, Microsoft SharePoint, Bugzilla. Defect/Test Management Tool: ALM, Quality centre, Test Director Tools: ITCAM, BMC Patrol, SAP, Remedy, RFHUtil, SOAP UI, Junit, Clear Case, Clear Quest, Omegamon, LDAP, IBM RTC, Oracle SQL Developer, PUTTY, SOAP UI, RFHUTIL, XML Spy, Eclipse, Service Centre, VISIO, Jive Clear Space, Adobe LiveCycle ES, Resource Analyser, log Analyser, SQL Server Studio, LAMP, MySQL Administrator, Microsoft SharePoint 2007, load runner, SiteMinder, SSL, DNS, Firewall. Operating System: RHEL, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, HP-UX, Redhat Linux, Fedora, CentOS, SUSE LINUX, Windows. Database: DB2, Oracle, SQL Server, My SQL, UDB for Linux/Unix & Windows. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Hillsboro, OR IBM Integration Bus Responsibilities: Creating Technical Design Documents, API documents and providing the project/service LOE’s. Installation and Configuration of IBM Integration Bus across different environments. Installing IBMMQ, creating queue managers, local and remote queues, topics and channels. Setup the IBMIntegrationNode, Integration Servers, configurable services, ports, and ODBC/JDBC configurations on IBMIntegrationBus. Developing the actual services using IBM Integration Bus and IBMMQ. Configuring IBMIIB with IBMMQ and Integrating IBMIIB with backend FDR using MQ Remote Channels. Developing complex and optimized message flows using HTTPnodes, SOAPnodes, WebSphereMQnodes, Transformation nodes, Routing nodes, Construction nodes, Database nodes, File nodes, Email nodes Timer nodes and Adapters. Extensive experience in writing high performance ESQL code in compute nodes and writing re-usable code using procedures and functions. Expertise in using Message sets, Message modelling, DFDL, MRM and other parsers. Proficient in developing Rest services using HTTP nodes, SOAP services using soap nodes and back end services using MQnodes. Capable of writing Java code in Java compute nodes when needed. Developed re-usable code using shared libraries and delivered high performance code to production. Configured ODBC and JDBC connections to OracleDatabase, updated connection properties and Optimized the SQLQueries to reduce the timeout issues between IIB& Database. Implementing Event Logging for Auditing Transactions and writing those events to Database. Have set up the detailed logging for all message flow apps for Troubleshooting purpose. Tuning IIB to give the maximum throughput when needed. Creating IIB Configurable Services to reduce the redundancy and apply the IIBRuntime Properties. Installed and Configured IIB for a migration POC and migrated IIB applications to IIB. Configured Web-UI for deployment, monitoring and troubleshooting of IIB. Served as a key member for doing POC's when changes are implemented. Expert in working on different server environments like Windows/Linux/Unix. Contributed a Lion Share on increasing the performance of IIB applications in production. Environment: IBM Integration Bus, WebSphere MQ (WMQ), XI52, IBM Integration Toolkit, IBM WebSphere MQ Explorer, Java, J2EE, Linux, Oracle, Git, Atlassian Cloud, Source Tree\Bit Bucket, REST, SOAP, XML, ESQL, SOAP UI, RFHUtil and ANT. Confidential, Minneapolis, Minnesota IBM Integration Bus Consultant Responsibilities: Gathered requirements, created detailed designs solutions to ensure business requirements are met with quality. Involved in understanding the client requirements and determining the scope of each Interface. Created & configured load balancing with round robin, weighted, health page and port monitor.. Integrated Data Powerservices with WebSphere Application Server, WebSphere MQ, IBM IntegrationBus and OracleDB. Designed and developed Message flows using IIB to Integrate with various systems in Enterprise. Used Single file to Single Message protocol in WMQ - File Transfer Edition (FTE) for transferring files from Digital Marketing system to the Application hosted system. Experience in working with WSRR and integrating it with IBMIntegrationBus. Designed and developed the Generic Connector to process message for more than one application. Designed and developed EJB Web Services for Java/J2EE applications and consumed those services in message flows. Designed and developed ETL structures to extract, transform and load data from multiple data sources into data warehouse and other databases based on requirements Integrated the Enterprise applications with PeopleSoftHR application to provide the integrated business solutions for Human Resource Department. Implemented fixes and enhancements to applications in order to improve supportability, operability and performance of the technical solution. Acted as POC for providing architecture, vision, problem anticipation and problem solving for AMOS applications. Worked with File Nodes for extracting and processing data from CSV, Pipe-delimited, tab-delimited files and EDI files. Capable to handle any delimited files. Created MQ Message Groups with different message formats like XML, BLOB, CSV, TSV and different file formats which are the input for AMOS. Configured FTP and SFTP process for File Monitoring and File Transfer to Local and Remote Servers. Created DFDL schemas for various industry standard formats and developed schemas for EDI Formats (UN\EDIFACT), CSV, TSV, PipeDelimited etc. Developed Message Flows to provide a Rich User Interface for backend services for Business people to process Emails and USPS Campaigns. Developed message flows using ComputeNode, JavaComputeNode, EmailNode, XMLTransformationNode, FilterNode, Route to Label, Label, and ResetContentDescriptor, Floworder, Filenode and DatabaseNodes. Experience in using UDP’s on message flows, sub flows and application level. Proficient in debugging and troubleshooting. Have In-depth knowledge on Logging & Tracing mechanism. Coded ESQL procedures and functions for message processing and configured to the respective node in the message flows. Good knowledge on SOAP based WebServices and Top-Down and Bottom-Up Service patterns. Developed Data Access Layer for new services using DAO’s&DTO’s. Experience in writing high efficiency, maintainability and reusability code. Developed standard Exception Logger and Exception Handler for handling different types of exceptions in message flows. Hand on experience in installing IBM IntegrationBus Toolkit, WebSphere Message Broker RunTime and WebSphere MQSeries. Good knowledge on Broker Clusters. Experience in working with BAR files and its properties. Designed message flows that interact with different databases (SQLServer, Sybase, and DB2). Experience in using Integration Test Client for testing complex and integrated message flows. Experience in monitoring the various MQSeries objects like queues, channels, listeners etc. Provided performance tuning to the queue managers and queues for optimal performance. Fine-tuned message flows and ESQL for the best performance. Experience in Broker resource management, caching and memory management. Involved in designing of cluster environment and then created cluster queues and channels for work load distribution. Collaborated with Project Manager to identify and mitigate technical risks and articulated project status, design and approach to management/business team. Provided hands-on support for builds, production launch and post-deployment fixes. Experience in working with Agile Scrum Methodology. Environment: IBM Integration Bus, WebSphere MQ (WMQ), IBM WMB 8, IBM WebSphere MQ Explorer, IBM WebSphere Transformation Extender, Java, J2EE, AIX, MS SQL Server, IBM DB2, XML, ESQL, IBM Clear Case, SOAP/Restful Web Services, SOAP UI and RFHUtil. Confidential, Reston,VA WMB Developer\ Consultant Responsibilities: Analysis of the existing Vendor applications and created a road map for their integration to EIP ( Enterprise Integration platform) Created Functional and technical design documents and for the EIP platform Phase I. In-depth knowledge of functional and technical experience in IBMWebSphere Message Broker and applied SOA in building business services. Designed and developed reusable sub flows for error checking, Business exception handling and logging. Designed and developed Skeleton message flows and message sets for JEP project. Designed and developed message flow for integrating java based Query Management System (QMS) and Mainframe based Corporate System ( CORP This interface transforms XML messages from QMS to EDI format messages for CORP. Involved in the Design of the Integration Solutions between multiple Applications. Developed and designed message flows and message sets using ESQL to implement in routing and transformation for mapping the messages between XML, COBOL Copybook and C Structures. Developed message flows using HTTP Request, HTTP Input Node and HTTP Reply Node for hosting and calling a Web Service. Hands on experience in implementing Single file to Single Message transfer and Single file to Multiple Messages transfers using WebSphereMQ File Transfer Edition (WMQFTE) Worked extensively on SAP Adapters to interact with SAP systems. Developed message flows using SAP nodes to interact with SAP applications. Worked with BAPIs, IDOCs and ALEs for communicating with the SAP system. Involved in design and development of Publish/Subscribe message flow Architectures. Developed message flow using Compute Node, Java Compute Node, XML Transformation Node, Filter Node, Route to Label, Label, and Reset Content Descriptor, Flow order, File node and Database Nodes. Involved in integrating the applications using the message oriented middleware methods to maintain the data flow. Had experience working on JDBC adapters for connecting with java based applications. Installed, configured the WMQ and WMB products on Windows, AIX, UNIX Operating Systems. Configured the Oracle and DB2 as the database for WMB Broker runtime environment. Developed ShellScripts on various UNIX platforms for monitoring WMQ. Developed ANTScripts on windows to deploy Message Flows and Message Sets without using Control centre of WMB. Provided Naming Conventions, Backup & Recovery and Problem Determination Strategies for the project. Implemented and Configured SSL channels between queue manager to queue manager and applications to queue mangers. Used Monitor logs and Queue depths to proactively find potential problems. Integrated enterprise-wide J2EE applications and deployed using WebSphere Application Server and Application Assembly Tool. Actively involved in Architectural and design review meetings. Played vital role in tuning FIM, WebSeal and TAM to resolve performance issues. Good understanding on the shell scripts and have done the basic editing in the scripts. Involved in creating and developing test cases, test messages for Unit, Integration and QA testing. Provided Administrative support for MQ objects including Queue Managers, Remote queues, Local Queues, Queue Aliases, channels, transmission queues, triggered. Environment: WebSphere MQ (WMQ), WebSphere Message Broker (WMB), WMQFTE, SAP, Informatica, Cognos, Tivoli Enterprise, AIX, Mainframe, Oracle, DB2, Java, J2EE, XML, XSD, WebServices, ESQL, SoapUI, RFHUtil, Integration Test Client and SQL. Confidential, Los Angeles, CA IBM Integration Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for analysis, requirements gathering, documentation of functional/technical specifications, data mapping, development and testing for WideOrbit Integrations. Developed new MessageFlows, ESQL Statements, Message sets, Pub/Sub applications and flows without Message set using custom XSD/XSLT transformations to transform into XML. Implemented ESQL logic for database lookups, Metadata-Driven Processing, Message Validation, Translation&Transformation, and Stored Procedures for batched code set lookups. Created and Developed Sub flows for various purposes like Auditing, Tracking, Routing and Message retry facility for different interfaces. Worked on File integrations, database connections from ESB and BPM Integration with ESB. Implemented of File interface flows for live playlists between Counterpoint, ZTA and WideOrbit systems. Implemented WSRR Web Service Registry and Repository for storing, managing and accessing information from WSDL using the End Point Lookup Nodes. Implemented ESQL logic for database lookups, Metadata-Driven Processing, Message Validation, Translation, Transformation, and Stored Procedures for batched code set lookups. Worked on the Email notification through SMTP nodes for thorough tracking of all the transactions success and failure. Worked on the Low-level design documents and the prod support handbook. Updated all Design and architecture documents. Worked on redesigning the master controller to support huge number of payloads incoming to Univision from different source systems also validate the payload and fixed the java issues. Developed test cases for Common flows and tested those test cases in UT (Unit Testing), ST (System Testing) and IT (Integration Testing). Environment: IBM Integration Bus 9.0.0.1, WebSphere MQ 7.0, IBM MQ Series 7.5, ESQL, IBM WSRR 8.0.0, IBM BPM 8.5.0, Oracle 10g, RFH Util, SOAP UI 5.0.0, Windows 7, Java 1.6, Tortoise SVN Repository. Confidential WMB Developer Responsibilities: Coordinating with WBI developers in design, implementation, architecture and development of enhancements and modifications. Implemented Web services message flow using SOAP nodes in WebSphere Message Broker 7.0. Developed message flows for content based routing of messages Developed Message Flow interfaces using WMB to transform messages to meet their business needs with the help of IBM Primitive nodes i.e. Compute Node, Filter Node, RoutetoLabel, Reset Content Descriptor, Trace and XML Transformation Nodes. Developed Message flows and the Sub flows to process all kinds of Transactions between various applications. Implemented ESQL logic for database lookups, metadata-driven processing, message validation/translation/transformation, exception handling and stored procedures for batched code set lookups. Involved in debugging of ESQL and java code. Worked with various different middleware application teams and helped them setup communication between Middleware Applications & IBMMQ Server. Helped for Creating the Message Sets, Message definitions to encapsulate the business logic using MRM import techniques and message flows using ESQL to interface with various systems. Business Logic includes Data Transformation from XML Schema and WSDL. Designed different components of the transition including Validation, Exception and error handling. Correlation of request reply messages, logging requirements are some of the other pieces put into design. Processes XML messages with exceptions and performs message transformation, translation, validation for incoming messages, XML file lookups, database inserts, https posts and java calls to backend systems. Worked extensively on the aggregation and http nodes in calling external web services. Debugging existing message flows and message flows in current development by adding Break points in between message flows. Created a deployable broker archive (BAR) file. Configured and deployed the BAR files to a test as well as DEV environments. Environment: WebSphere MQ 7.0, WebSphere MB 7.0, ESQL, RFHUtil, XML, DB2/UDB, Oracle 9i and Windows, IBM AIX, Redhat Linux. Confidential Message Broker Consultant Responsibilities: Worked on Defining and maintaining Queue Managers, Queues, Channels and other MQObjects on various platforms. Responsible for Designing, developing, unit test and integrated MessageBroker flows in WMBv7 Development of mappings using WESB and WMB middleware for interfaces such as XML to XML, XML to MQRFH2and transformation. Created MQ infrastructure designs and worked with MQteam for implementing designs. Designed message flows to interact with the file system using file nodes. Designed and developed applications and libraries and deployed in integration runtime. Designed & developed Message Sets, Message flows, Mediation flows and deployed in broker runtime. Participate in design, walkthrough, code review, and defect review meetings. Developed message flows involving data flow using Environment variables, UDPs for dynamicDB parameters. Conduct System, Integration, Functional and Regression Tests in test and quality assurance environments. Configured CVS repository with Message Broker and daily check-in and checkout/version control of the source code. Hands on experience on Adapters in WESB such as JDBC, MQ etc. Writing Technical Design Documents and Unit test case design documents for the message flow projects. Identified integration requirements and created a low-level design. Reported status and participated in Daily meetings and calls. Environment: IBM Web Sphere MQ, Web Sphere Message Broker V7, WESB, RFHUtil, Soap UI, ESQL, Java, AS/400, SQL, Windows, Quality Centre. 