SUMMARY About 7 years of experience as a Front - End UI Developer with exceptional skills in Analysis, Design and Development of high scalable Multi-Tired Web Applications Extensive experience in implementing store actions, installing React Router, React-Redux app to handle real-time data, API calls from Thunk, Redux in React native Experience with React.JS and React-Redux app and developed real time applications using React JS Thunk architecture for creating user interface, displaying data, keeping the user interface up-to-date when data changes Experience on MVC frameworks like AngularJS and Angular 2 for creating Single-Page Applications along with Ionic. Extensive experience in developing software applications using Angular 2 components like observables, routing, dependency injection, two-way binding, service resources, pipes, and events Developed API driven responsive web applications by integrating Angular 2 with Bootstrap and API’s Experience in working with Configuring redux store, reducers and actions. Used sagas for handling middleware and 'fetch api' for rest calls Extensively implemented ES6 for building an interactive cross-platform web application and optimizing the application for high performance Extensive use of Node.js, Express.js, and MongoDB to create server-side applicationsExpert in working with NodeJS server-side application to implement concepts like Event Dispatcher, Express.js Strong experience in working with third party webservices and using AJAX for implementing dynamic webpages where the content can be fetched via API calls, using Restful web services Worked with product and project management, design, business analysis, and QA to deliver high-quality, complete software releases Used JIRA as an issue tracking product management tool to maintain and collaborate on issues and tasks Worked on IDE’s like Atom, WebStorm, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, IntelliJ IDEA and Sublime Text Experience with full Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC), Architecting Scalable Platforms, Object Oriented Programming and Agile Methodologies TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies: HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, Typescript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, AJAX, XML,Webpack Framework/Library: jQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2, Angular Material Design, Node.js, D3JS, React.JS,React Native, Redux, IONIC IDE & Tools: MS Visual Studio for web, Dreamweaver, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Notepad++, Microsoft Visio, WebStorm Application Server: Node, Perforce, Webpack, TFS, NGINX Version Control: Tortoise, SVN, GIT Package Manager: NPM, Bower, Grunt, Gulp, Webpack Operating Systems: Windows, Mac, Linux Methodologies: Agile and Waterfall PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Portland, OR ReactJS Developer Responsibilities: Created a single page application using HTML5,CSS3,LESS,JAvascript,Bootsrap, ReactJS and Redux-Thunk Using bamboo as continuation Integration and development tool which ties automated builds, tests and releases together in a single workflow. Using swagger UI to visualize and interact with API’s. Using Redux to store the State of app in a single source Using Redux-Thunkto asynchronously launch redux actions in response with async code. Developed react/Redux code using functional programming best practices to enable efficient pure function testing. Utilized create-react-app to launch the product to stay update with most current WEBPACK and Babel to build configurations. Expertise in writing unit test cases with Jest for react application. Experience in react in making calls (GET,POST,PUT and DELETE) for triggering or fetching data from RESTful API’s provided by Backend Team. Used GIT for version control and BITBUCKET for source control and made use of JIRA for bug tracking and workflow management. Using NVDA Screen Reader for accessibility. Experience in functional programming with LOADASH. Involved in Bootstrap 4.0 and media queries for maintaining the responsiveness. Followed Agile methodology during SDLC with regular scrum sessions and bi-weekly sprint sessions to discuss the project progress and assign their stories as per the sprint backlogs. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ReactJS, Redux, Bootstrap, Typescript, ES6/5, NPM, GIT, grunt, Ajax, Karma, Jasmine, Postman, Swagger, PICK, SASS, Less, Bitbucket, SourceTree, Webpack Confidential, Boston, MA Front End ReactJS Developer Responsibilities: Involving in the requirements analysis, designing, development, unit testing and maintenance of the SBA transformation. Developed a front-end web application for E-commerce platform using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, React.js, Redux, ES6 andNPM. Responsible to Style, look and feel of the web page with SASS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions. Working onReactJSVirtual Dom andReactviews, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags. Involving in implementing various screens for the front end usingReact.jsand used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library. Working in usingReactJScomponents, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Redux concept. Implemented stableReactcomponents and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages. Responsible forReactUI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide- View, and Table Grid. Using ReactJSfor templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components. Using React-auto complete for creating Google maps location search on the webpage. Configured NPM to execute linters, magnifiers, pre/post-processors, tests, transpires, etc. based on build target. Worked with ReactJS framework to run the bootstrap method against Typescript files which are related to application module. Responsible for creating Sketch, wireframe, prototype and visual mockups. Good hands on experience and knowledge on Redux and ngrx store to manage the State, Subscribing and unsubscribing the state changes and dispatching the actions in Redux for existing. Worked on improving and debugging the API functions using Postman and Used Jasmine and Karma for writing the test cases. Worked on Grunt as it was the JavaScript task runner used for performing the frequent tasks such as Minification, Compilation, Unit testing and linting. Developing theReactcontainer and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable). Work closely with the development team to implement the enhancements and upgrades of the services. Developing the Redux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency. Using Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage modules & used it to install useful tools as Grunt, and Express. Responsible for the design of web applications for Web user as well as Retail users. Working on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and Project managers. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ReactJS, Redux, Bootstrap, Typescript, ES6/5, NPM, GIT, grunt, Ajax, Karma, Jasmine, Postman, Swagger, SASS, Less, Bitbucket, SourceTree,Webpack. Confidential, Michigan ReactJS Developer Responsibilities: Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library Implemented React-Router, React Redux architecture, ES6, web pack and Grunt to turn application into Single Page Application Participated in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept Experience in working with react-responsive frameworks using react-responsive for different breakpoints Configured redux store, reducers and actions. Used sagas for handling middleware and 'fetch API' for rest calls Involved in developing presentational and container components using React and JSX Used react-data grid to populate the dynamic data within the table. Used react-bootstrap and SASS for handling responsiveness in the application and parse correct styles on prop changes Experience in working with REDUX architecture and REDUX for state management in maintaining the application when the state is updated Used ReduxThunk for maintaining the dispatch either if the state is delayed or if the condition is met Responsible for developing front-end application using React.js and FLUX architecture for internal team’s productivity use Implemented styling react-CSS styles using CSS3 styles with CSS grids, flexbox, Carousel etc. Developed the application in pure-react style and removed jQuery dependencies for better functionality Worked with API team to optimize existing API calls and integrated with the WCS to create efficiency by deprecating unneeded API calls Used ES6, JSX with react for component development make react look more elegant Used Babel.js to transpile ES6 and JSX into JavaScript Created a state management in react application using redux for the data flow within the application Experience working with fractal server and eslint configurations to maintain code prettier and efficient Have used Jenkins for build process and Continuous integration Tested React components and application using Jasmine and Karma Used Git for version controlling. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, ReactJS, Redux, Flux, NodeJS, Typescript, ES6, NPM, Webpack, GIT, Jasmine, Karma, Protractor Confidential, Lowell, AR AngularJS/UI Developer Responsibilities: Developed the User Interactive web pages using web technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS as per company’s standards Developed Single Page Application using Angular JS for different modules including event driven pages Worked with Adaptive web designing and developed CSS Media Queries to make the application compatible with iPad (Landscape and Portrait) and PC Used various features in AngularJS like data binding, routing, custom filters, custom directives to meet various customized requirements. Developed reusable components using Custom Directives in AngularJS and developed various application functionalities such as search, pagination, filtering using MVVM JavaScript Framework Angular JS Developed custom Angular JS proxy to send requests to client’s APIs, handling authentication and custom headers Maintained existing UIApplications and upgraded them using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript and JSON Used latest ES6 features such as arrow functions and classes to implement business logic in the application. Used JavaScript for developing client-side presentation and data validation within the forms Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls with JavaScript and jQuery Developed web application, AJAX Driven user interface, interaction scenarios and AJAX navigation based on analysis, interpretations of requirement and use cases Used Angular two-way binding and Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using AngularJS UsedAngularJS multiple in-built directives such as filters, root scope, child scope, modal, template, state Worked in Service Oriented Architecture the Angular component interacts with the API for the fetching data Developed form validation with AngularJS $valid, and data validation Design and development of a proof-of-concept real-time notification system using NodeJS as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with Database Using tools like GIT for version controlling Environment: HTML, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, NodeJS, MongoDB, Agile, WebStorm Confidential Jr. UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Requirement gathering phase to gather the requirements from the business users and dealing with UX team to continuously accommodate changing user requirements. Responsible for translating designs and concepts into highly usable and engaging web applications using HTML, CSS including AJAX controls and JSON Handled REST API calls with AJAX and processed JSON data responses to format, validate and display to the user Extensively used CSS to change the styles to be used in future web layouts and debugging the errors issues with CSS Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface, and Forms Developed front-end UI pages and necessary backend classes to support data access and user authorization. Used SVN for version control and QC for defect tracking. Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint. Worked on cross-browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers Environment: HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, MYSQL, SVN, Visual Studio 