SUMMARY Around 8+ years of experience in developing professional web applications which includes front - end designing and hand coding with solid proficiency in usability, web and client / server applications. Experienced in designing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML 4.0/5, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS 1.5, Angular 2/4/5, ReactJs, JSON and XML. Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and experience with Agile and SCRUM. Experienced in development approaches Front-end Model View Controller (MVC), event - driven applications using Object-Oriented Web applications, AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript. Experienced in designing the interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, and converting findings into UI designs. Experienced in various Java script frame works like JQuery, Backbone, Angular and ReactJs. Experienced in using React JS components, Router, Forms, Events, Keys, Redux, Animations and Flux. Experienced in ReactJS for creating interactiveUI'susingOne-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Nativeconcepts. Experienced in creating Angular components, directives, routing, Template Driven and Reactive Forms. Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD). Experienced in Angular Cli and worked with all various concepts like routing, services, custom directives, promises, factory and providers. Experienced in writing various custom directives in AngularJS for both DOM manipulation and for repeated use of markup code. Experienced in working with NoSQL Database like Mongo DB, Cassandra to manage extremely large datasets. Lead Sprints in UX Design, Front-end Development and Back-end Services. Familiar with popular browsers development and debugging tools/plugins for IE tester, Chrome Inspector, Firebug, Jasmine and Karma testing framework. Experienced in Document Object Model (DOM) and also in client side applications using React JS. Experienced in Require JS to optimize in-browser use and to load the module and to improve the Speed. Good Knowledge and understanding on NPM, BABEL, and Web pack. Experience with task runners like Grunt, Gulp to minify CSS/JavaScript. Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome. TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, Jasmine, XML, JSON, Media Queries, Responsive Web Design, CSS sprites, CSS grid, JSF . JavaScript Libraries: JQuery, UnderscoreJS, RequireJS Languages: JavaScript, AJAX, Typescript. Frameworks: Bootstrap, BackboneJS, AngularJS, Angular 2/4/5, ReactJs Tools: and Softwares: SVN, GIT, Grunt, Gulp, Tableau, Servicenow, Adobe Suite(Photoshop), Illustrator, Max, Maya, Premiere Pro, Sketch, Invision. Publishing Tools: Adobe PageMaker, Indesign, MS Office, Microsoft Azure . Editors / IDE Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans, Adobe Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Visual studio. Database: PL/SQL(Oracle), Mongodb, MySQL. Web/Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, web logic. Operating System: MAC OS X, Windows, Unix/ Linux. Web Services: SOAP, XML, RESTful. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, FL Node Js Developer Responsibilities: Integration of user-facing elements developed by front-end developers with server side logic. Develop and execute unit, functional, integration testing of developed software components. Writing reusable, testable, and efficient code using Node js with express framework and sockets concept. Work as a part of a team developing applications, azure functions and services using Agile development methods. Contribute to team and organizational improvements in process and infrastructure. Provide strong technical guidance to TD development/project teams, including teams that are geographically distributed. Extensively using database systems such as MongoDB,SQL. Using ES6,ES7, JavaScript, J query and AJAX, CSS,mobile ionic, angular 5 for frontend development whenever any assistance needed. Creating BPMN camunda models to support the flow of the process of conversation. Write unit test cases using moca and chai. Environment: Visual studio Code,Node JS,Express Framework,,Angular js, MongoDB,AJAX, XML, Restful Web Services, SQL, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Visual Studio Team Services, Azure Web Services,Windows7, SQL. Confidential, ND Web/UI Developer Responsibilities: Web designing & development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, BackboneJs, ReactJs, Redux and Ajax. Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing Typescript and Angularjs, created HTML navigation menu. Rewrote one of the key pages, which allows users to manage their content. The task involve investigation of the Angularjs UI-Grid as well as refactoring of several backend methods. Hands on experience while Migrating the Application from Angular Js to Angular 4. Built ReactJS modules, controllers, pop up modals, and file up loader. Worked with the development team, involved in creating MVW (Web API) to implement ReactJS framework for client side rendering to optimize the front-end. Created ReactJs directives, factories and services for developing single page web applications. Implemented ReactJs client-side form validation to validate the user inputs before passing to back-end. Developed ReactJs pages, Web services calls and AJAX calls for the applications used in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope. Used ReactJs in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual. Involved in Test Driven Development with Unit and Integration Testing of the Application. Incorporated MVC architecture using spring framework. Incorporated ORM mapping and Dependency Injection in a Spring Framework & Hibernate. Performed regression testing, wrote unit test cases using Junit. Implemented Ajax to create highly optimized, browser-compliant JavaScript and HTML. Implemented the Persistence Layer and Data Access Service Layer using Hibernate and HQL queries. Used Concurrent Versioning System (CVS) as version control system, to keep track of all the work & all changes, allowing several developers to collaborate. Used Agile Methodology for development process. JavaScript used for the Client side validation. AJAX used for the Asynchronous data populating on pages. Developed logging & debugging modules which writes to the application log file. Node-powered workflow and build system involving gulp, webpack, PostCSS, and other tools. Used Maven for the build and deployment process and overall project management. Documented the application for the new features and functionalities. Used Grunt, Gulp, Webpack as debugging tools. Environment: Java1.6, Angular js, Spring Core, Spring Web MVC, Hibernate 3.1, JSP, Servlets, UNIX, Oracle 11g, WebLogic 10.3, Eclipse, AJAX, XML, Restful Web Services, SQL, Maven, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Node JS, Windows7, SQL Developer, CVS. Confidential - SanFrancisco, CA UI Developer Responsibilities: Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned. Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML4, XHTML, and CSS2/3 based on the W3C standards . Write documentation describing program development, logic, coding, and corrections. Used Unix Commands for manipulating the data in deployment phase. Actively used DHTML, JavaScript, J query and AJAX, CSS for frontend development. On the backend, it was Java (JSP) and Oracle. Recommended alterations and enhancements to improve quality of products and/or procedures which are search engine friendly. Developing application design guidance and consultation, utilizing a thorough understanding of applicable technology, tools and existing designs. CreatedAngularJSController Which Isolate scopes perform operations in UI. Accessed functions in web server using Restful web-services. Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie. Developed custom directives using angular.js. Used Node JS for heavy DOM manipulation. Worked with a team which includes Tech Leads, Business Analysts, System Analysts and Testers using Agile (Scrum) methodologies. Used Hibernate mappings, relationships between tables and entity classes to access and update information in the database. Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture using Struts framework. Maintained Cross Browser compatibility and implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc. Involved in development of rich user interface components using JSON, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery and HTML5. Used JavaScript for adding little functionality to the existing application (calendar, tooltips, hiding elements, etc. Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, require JS, Java Script andNode.js. Developed CSS3 style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation and icons. Applied industry best practices and standards when project requirements were lagging. Used Web services - WSDL and Restful to access the data stored in regional databases Used Eclipse 3.0 as IDE, Maven as the build tool and Clear Case for the version control. Worked on SQL queries with Oracle SQL developer to select/insert/update/joins etc. for test/development purpose in local environment. Deployed Application on WebSphere Application Server v7.0. Environment: Eclipse IDE, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSP, Sublime Text 2, Backbone.js, JQuery, JavaScript, React JS, JSON, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, GitHub, JAXP 1.2, Restful web-services, Node.js, JDBC, Grunt, JSTL, Illustrator, Gulp, Bower, karma, Junit, Git, Jasmine, WebSphere Application Server (WAS) v7.0, Jenkins, Spring framework, JSP,JBOSS Drools, Hibernate 3.3,Rabbit-MQ, HTML4, CSS3, moment, LESS. Confidential, Dallas, TX Web application Developer Responsibilities: Developed some of the screens from designing stage. Developed custom directives in AngularJS for the UI screens. Developed test cases using Node.js and AngularJS for the UI. Developed the Admin screens using JSP, JavaScript, and AngularJS. Extensively worked on HTML4, CSS2, JavaScript, jQuery, and AJAX. Implemented HTML4, CSS2, JavaScript, and AJAX to improve the UI of the client companies. Used AJAX and JSON to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites. Tested the website on multiple browsers with the old as well as latest release. Designed web applications from the conceptualization stage to implementation and maintenance. Checked cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome. Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested, and improved. Used JavaScript methods and properties. Environment: HTML4, CSS2, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, Knockout JS, Bootstrap, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Agile, Git Confidential, NC Front-end Developer with Node JS Responsibilities: Created new Theme & configured the client websites using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation. Responsible to develop interactive UI's using HTML, CSS in JQuery as well as making the page’s dynamic using AJAX, JSON and XML. Involved in development of responsive UI's using media queries to fit all sizes of devices Extended CSS as needed to accommodate new data and display types Create forms and validate user input values to make sure that they will be accepted before they are submitted to the server Used JQUERY to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request. Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries for form validation and other interactive features Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plug-in for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, JSON, and JavaScript. Integration of user-facing elements developed by front-end developers with server side logic in node js Implementing automated testing, unit tests and functional tests in node js Passion for emerging JavaScript Technologies in node js Used Bugzilla as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis. Performed validation of completed sites including the debugging and testing of code Responsible for quality assurance of finished websites including the validation of web forms and links Environment: HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, JSON, XML, AJAX, JIRA, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Notepad++ Confidential UI Developer/Designer Responsibilities: Worked in Agile Methodology environment. Developed UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Require JS. Created Webpages using View, Model and Collection. Used sync feature to persist the state of model to the server. Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries for form validation and other interactive features. Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plug-in for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, JSON, and JavaScript. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Typescript, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, XML, JSON, Responsive design, Visual Studio, Grunt, Agile, Jira, Azure, Firefox, Chrome. 