SUMMARY Over 3 years of professional experience as a UI Developer creating web based applications in Health and Education domains. Experienced in developing applications using MEAN stack using MongoDB, ExpressJS, Angular 5/4/2/1.x, and Node JS Expertise in Angular 4/2 Components, Services, Injectables, Subject, Observables, Pipes, Route guards, forms, reactive - forms, Http Client, Http Interceptor, Routers, Data Binding, Animations and working knowledge on AngularFire2 for integrating firebase authentication. Proficient in Angular JS 1.x Controllers, Promises, Services, Custom Directives, Filters, Events, Injectors and Template Driven forms. Experience in Server-Side application development framework using Express Js, OAuth 2.0, filesystem, Event dispatcher in Node JS and building andconsuming RESTful APIs using Node Js and Express Js. Used NPM to manage the moduleslike http, express, mongoose, socket.io, CORS and JWT and usedvarious libraries and frameworks such as require.js, mongo.js, body- parser, Rxjs and socket.io in different applications. Worked with Require.js forlazy loadingto reduce the load time in AngularJS Good experience in implementing Node JS server-side codeto interact with MongoDB to store and retrieve data by using Mongoose drivers. Worked on N0-sql Database MongoDB for performing the CRUD Operations Worked with Redux architecture using the concepts like react router, react-redux binding, store, reducer and actions Extensively worked on integrating Redux library, creating Store and used socket.io in Proficient in developing web applications using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, ES6 and jQuery utilizing JavaScript concepts like Closures, Callbacks, prototypes, Design Patterns, DOM manipultion and promises. Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON Developed responsive web design using Bootstrap 3.x and CSS media queries, Grids, Positioning, Boxsizing, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements. Also used CSS pre-processors like LESS and SASS. Good Experience in using Angular Fusion charts and D3.js for dynamic visualizations. Used Babel to transpile the code from ES6 to ES5 and used webpack for bundling code. Expertise in cross-browser testing using MODERNIZR and experience using Gulp and Grunt as task runners. Experience in performing unit-testing using Jasmine and Karma Worked on browser debugging toolslike chrome developer tools and firebug for debugging the code. Proficient with the version control tools such as GIT, GitHub Excellent interpersonal skills with an ability to adapt to new and challenging environments, confident and ability to work independently as well as in a team environment. TECHNICAL SKILLS UI Web Technologies: HTML (4.01, 5), AJAX, JSON, CSS (3), LESS,SASS, Bootstrap (3.x), RESTful Services JS Libraries and Frameworks: JavaScript (1.8.5), jQuery(3/2/1), Express Js (4/3.x), Node Js (8/6/4/0.10.x), Angular Js (1.x), Angular (5/4/2), ES2015, ES6,D3.JS Web Servers: Node.js (8/6/4/0.10.x) Development Methodology: Agile, Waterfall, Scrum Operating Systems: Linux, UNIX, Windows 2000/XP/7, Windows 8.1, Windows 10 Databases and Platform: MongoDB(3/2.x) Testing Tools: Jasmine, Karma. IDE: NetBeans, Visual Studio Code, Sublime text PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE UI Developer Confidential, Boston - MA Responsibilities: Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interactive Single page applications using Angular5, TypeScript, HTML5, CSS3, Node JS, Bootstrap Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture with Angular 5. Implemented filter to search the user preferences using Angular5 Pipes Worked on Signup module using Angular5 JWT and Route guards to check for a valid user Created templates using Angular directives and worked with NPM package manager tools Used RESTFUL web services using Angular HTTP Module and transformed the response using RXJS observables. Used input and output decorators to communicate between different Parent Child components Worked with making calls to WEB APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM Manipulation Used Node.js and Express.js to create non-blocking input output models on server side I have implemented breadcrumbs to navigate to different departments Worked on ngx carousal package for infinite slidings on homepage to advertise Worked in an Agile- Scrum development methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work with monthly iteration and was also involved in sprint planning and retrospectives. Designed and developed UI components using CSS preprocessor SASS Used AngularFusion charts for visualizing the work progress in the project Used Visual studio Code IDE for designing coding and development of this application For easy debugging used testing framework Jasmine I have used Git for version control. Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and carried out troubleshooting. Environment: Angular 5, SASS, JSON, REST APIs, Git, Node JS, AngularFusion Charts, HTML5, CSS3, Jasmine Graduate Student Assistant Confidential Responsibilities: Developed application using Angular 2, Node Js, Express Js, MongoDB. Created reusable components and routing to implement navigation between the components using Angular2 framework. Worked on Angular4 routes, components, directives, services, LifeCycleHooks, and Reactive forms. Added custom behavior to directives by using Data binding, pipes, services and dependency injection in Angular4 application. Used HttpClient module to make call to REST APIs to render data and handled the response using Observables. Implemented applications with Lazy Loading concept to decrease the load time by creating feature modules. Developed the component interaction between the parent-child components and sibling components using Input, Output decorators, template reference variable and shared services. Created multiple Reactive forms to take the queries from the user and applied Built-in validations to ensure the user provides valid information. Implemented JWT web-based token authentication and AUTH Guards to prevent invalid routing address for a better security purpose Developed several APIs using RESTful web service and consumed various APIs from different internal portals. Built backend with Node JS and Express JS to transfer data between front and backend using JSON. Performed various queries using Mongoose to update / retrieve data from MongoDB. Implemented web-based data visualizations by integrating D3.js. Developed all the page styles by using Bootstrap and SASS to gain better structure of style sheets for maintenance purpose. Handled browser/platform compatibility issues very effectively modernizr . Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3.3.6, Angular 4, JavaScript 1.8.5, jQuery 2.2, Node Js 4.2.5, Express Js4.13.4,MongoDB3.2.1, NPM, Web services, D3.js, GitHub, Jasmine, Karma,JIRA6.0 Graduate Student Assistant Confidential Responsibilities: Developed the web application using Angular Js framework including MVC architecture. Implemented different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters. Worked on Angular Js features like directives, interpolation, scope, services, modules and controllers. Utilized Angular Js routers, forms, DOM, events, Expressions, and controllers in the application. Used Angular Js HTTP Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI. Created Angular Js Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server. Used Require.js for lazy loading of modules Built various form validations in forms using jQuery and implemented custom form validations. Constructed $q service to run functions asynchronously and used their returned values after being processed. Created Angular Js Routing to connect different controller to the view which allows the single-page application. Used Node Js to implement server-side applications. Consumed API’s and web services using AJAX and JSON. Used Angular Js built-in directives like ng model and ng repeat and created custom directives. Used jQuery Plugins to create pop-up, hide and show controls, drop-down and toggle menus. Designed the web pages by turning mockups into HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap applications. Implemented dynamic web applications using Bootstrap, jQuery and used CSS3 features like web fonts, gradients and multipage layout. Environment: HTML 4.01, CSS 3, JavaScript 1.8.5, Angular Js 1.4, Node Js 0.10.30, jQuery 2.1,Require.js,Bootstrap3.2.0, AJAX, JSON Web Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Designed the front-end applications, user interactive(UI) web pages using web technologies such as JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3 Performed requirement analysis to gather information for laying out solid UI design. Built application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript. Worked on front-end pages that were developed in a professional manner using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery. Used jQuery to make the HTML5 and CSS3 code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamic behavior to the web pages at the client side. Used jQuery to navigate to different pages of the application using DOM elements, and to create AJAX pages. Used JSON for transferring and storing data from server. Prepared and reviewed Unit Testing, Test Results and other quality related work. Used GIT for version controlling Environment: HTML 4.01, CSS 3, JavaScript 1.8.5, jQuery 1.10, AJAX, JSON, GIT 1.8 