SUMMARY Around 9 years of experience in PHP Technology, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, Drupal Content Management System, Word Press, LAMP technology, WAMP,XAMPP technology and MVCFramework. Experience in developing UI applications using HTML, HTML5, JQuery, and AJAX, AngularJS. Experience in developing custom drupal modules using PHP Worked on Zendmodule development and customization. Expert PHP Development utilizing Zend, CakePHP, Laravel,CodeIgniter and Symphony frameworks. Worked on Enterprise level projects Using Drupal Experience in Acquia Cloud setup and developed projects in Aquia using Drupal 8 Experienced in E - commerce application tool such as Magento. Good experience in TFS Automation Build and deployment. Excellent experience in publishing domain related web applications. Experience in Apache web server administration/configuration. Excellent Experience in building PHPApps using MVC Architecture. Ability to develop unique, cutting-edge applications and troubleshoot issues for different handset and user requirements in PHP. Experience with database SQL development and excellent knowledge working with relational database systems such as MySQL, Oracle. Working experience with setup &use of version control systems like SVN, GIT, CVS. Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Visual Studio. Solid Experience in common third-party APIs including Social media API's, Amazon web services (AWS). Excellent experience developing responsive sites with HTML5 and CSS3. Experience on code responsive designs using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and similar frameworks. Worked extensively in application Software Analysis, Design, Development, and testing. Report Generation, Unit testing using PHP Unit, System, Integration and Performance testing of the application and its components. Excellent procedural skills and improving Object Oriented skills. Proficiency in Prototype, Module Design, User Interface Design, and Integration of PHP components. Designing skills to design web site, page layouts, email newsletters. Solid Experience in end-to-end lifecycle of PHP based implementations. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Scripting Languages: PHP, C, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, PL/SQL, Python Ruby .NET, Drupal 8, Joomla, Magento, Word Press CMS Tools: Joomla, Drupal and WordPress Framework and Tools: MVC framework, Zend, MS Office, Symfony EXT.js, Moodle Web Technologies: JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, XML, JSON, JQuery, DOM, Markdown, XHTML, XSLT, CGI, JSP, XHR, Servlets, JDBC, Hibernate Databases: MySQL4/5 PHPMYADMIN, MS Access, Oracle, Postgre SQL, SQLite Application/Web Servers: Apache Web Server, IBM WebSphere, ZEND server Operating Systems: Linux Red Hat, Ubuntu, Unix, Windows IDE Tools: Adobe Dreamweaver, InDesign, Flash, Coldfusion, Photoshop, Eclipse, PHP Designer, M Microsoft Visual Studio, Zend Studio, IBM Rational Application DeveloperStudio, Zend Studio, IBM Rational Application Developer Modeling Tools: Rational Rose UML, MS Visio Web Services: WSDL, XML, SOAP, UDDI, API, BPM Networking Technologies: TCP/IP, OSPF, BGP, Cisco, Juniper, FTP, HTTP, DNS, DHCP PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Baltimore, MD PHP/Drupal Developer Responsibilities: Migrated from Drupal Version 7 to 8 including installing, theming and customizing systems with new enhancements. Building HTML/CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant. Managed remote teams in web development, sitemigrationand content generation Responsible for general maintenance and security updates forMagentoinstallations Customizing the Drupal content types and Modules Developing and customizing Word Press websites for small businesses Analysing and repairing compromised (virus-infected, hacked) WordPress websites Migrating and cloning large WordPress sites modified to accommodate new client specifications, testing new releases to assure compliance and non-breakage of custom logic. Configuring, customizing and integrating the SugarCRM based application with the existing system. Developing DataMigrationand Verification systems from Scratch based on customer interviews and develop SRS Developing and implementing the frontend, backend, database, module extensions, order integrations, and security usingMagentoCMS Developing custom Drupal themes to effectively address customer business requirements. Provided functionality for numerous web pages in the web app application such as login, register, and update user. Involved inMagentoadministration, auditing core code, database design, updating and programming new modules. Writing complex T-SQL query for reporting, Linux Shell scripts for datamigrationand ETL process Making use of PHP classes, interfaces, and traits in Drupal8. Storing and retrieving data like fields, views, State API in Drupal8 Maintaining custom enterprise level ERP platform based on detailed functional specifications. Managing day-to-day tickets, issues and enhancements and ensure work is correctly prioritized and completed on time. Confidential, Philadelphia, PA PHP Techno/Functional Engineer Responsibilities: Configured and developed custom Drupal responsive theme using Bootstrap and SASS. Involved in the designing the templates, Plugins, modules, active pages and customizing the CMS Drupal, PHP. Performed manual Drupal core, Plugin upgrades and developed custom MySQL queries and tested with PhpMyAdmin. Setup Apache,PHP, MySQL on Linux, and PostGreSQL database and database conversion/migrationfrom MySQL to PostGreSQL. Include MySQL database DBA and tuning duties Enhanced and maintained optimizing sites for usability, search engines and accessibility, and updated existing sites and content management systems. Implemented and configured on-line payments gateways, Affiliate management system, CMS referrals system, Credit Card Processing, User Authentication, Content Management, Account Maintenance, and Site Administration. Created and implemented unique, client specificMagentoextensions to facilitate a more native experience withinMagentofor their internal processes Implemented Bootstrap to make sure that the website was compatible on all of the operating systems such as Linux PHP Laravel. Routes and authentication to extend the functionality of the server and configured the application using Apache server. Built PHP applications to meet product requirements and satisfy use cases using MVC architecture, Laravel Framework and Drupal CMS. Integrated existing Drupal modules as well as create custom theme, module, views, functions and hooks. Participation themigrationof Playspan into VISA's own data center, give recommendation for server design and configuration etc. Designed and developed of modules of web-based applications using LAMP technology.Wrote PHP codes to interact with the third party JSON services to provide an easy to configure web service server interface. Performed code debugging of JavaScript and HTML code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome using JavaScript debugger. Worked on integratingMagentowith third party extensions Developed data access module, wrote queries through built-in query builder in Laravel 5 framework. Developed an efficient Administration module to manage the portal dynamically. Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using Integrated Laravel framework into the Back End of Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, LESS. Adopted a cross browser and cross platform approach to make the website more versatile and supportive. Confidential, Providence, RI Software Engineer Responsibilities: Worked on an open-source CMS JOOMLA, Drupal, Word Press for website development, edited and re-purposed WordPress Plugins in accordance to customer needs. Enhanced client website by building a responsive website with Bootstrap, AngularJS, EF and Azure from Plural sight. Involved in troubleshooting and resolving allMagentorelated issues and log errors Customized dashboard development for Helped debug, trouble shooting MySQL database issues like performance glitch arise during Transera's ISPmigration. accessing easy user interface using front end tools such as Ajax, JQuery, JavaScript etc. Designed and developed custom modules for implementing REST API.Used Sugar CRM to integrate LOA generation process Developed a set of Key Sales Performance Initiatives while initiating the implementation of SUGARCRM software to effectively track them. Built customMagentoextensions to handle pricing system Worked with Email Service Providers, email marketing and HTML email coding. Word Press theme and template files using HTML, CSS, PHP, and Bootstrap 3 framework. Created an internal browser-based text editor using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Require.js, Backbone.js. Confidential, Atlanta, GA Software Developer Responsibilities: Extensively used MySQL/PHP Programming (object-oriented PHP), Zend Framework in LAMP environment mainly for creating the navigation menu and sub menu in the site using CSS, HTML and PHP. Also built AJAX pages using PHP to display current for server time. Used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery for frontend web development and XHTML for User Interface Worked on PHP5 and MYSQL, HTML5, Ajax, JavaScript, CSS3 and Word Press on Windows and Linux operating systems. Worked with the Database Schema design and normalization for database accessed by the procedural PHP pages. Implemented the applications usingMagento2.0 on LINUX Environment web server Involved in the designing the templates and customizing the CMS Word Press. Developed custom modules by integrating Web Services like REST and SOAP. Created Web back-end user interfaces to new and existing databases utilizing PHP and MySQL. In charge of the existing in house custom crystal report system for modification, change of data source for ISPmigration, creating new crystal reports, etc. Designed the Visio diagrams and Use-Case diagrams, creation of menus, pages, templates, blocks in WordPress. Involved in fixing the CSS for the browsers Safari, Chrome, Mozilla, Internet explorer, Opera Used JQuery Scroll to plugins for the web pages to slide right and left as per the requirements on the modules. Extensively used JQuery Table sorter plugins as a data grid for sorting and freezing headers and footers for many tables which holds huge data. Worked on fixing various front end and back end related bugs that further helped in understanding overall product development, using mantis bug tracking system. Confidential Software Developer Responsibilities: Created the User Management and User Interfaces for different clients and users respectively. Developed applications in PHP and develop website functionality, developed the secured server user and admin accounts for secured web access. Adapted layouts from graphic artists to internet pages using HTML/CSS. Extensively applied PHP session variables and cookies implementation and PHP connectivity backend files or database. Used CSS, HTML, and JavaScript for developing rich user interface. Aided in designing the payroll form for the employee using Drupal, CSS. Developed the front end using PHP, HTML/DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax Created data entry applications to add/edit/delete data from online database. Deployed application software on Linux Server. Expertly used LAMP (Linux-Apachi-MySQL-PHP) platform. Maintained and updated web applications written in object-oriented PHP 5.0 accessing MySQL databases.