SUMMARY Over 9+ years of software development experience in object oriented programming, design and development of Multi - Tier distributed, enterprise applications using CoreJavaand J2EE technologies with Software Development Life Cycle. Intensive knowledge in databases like Oracle, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Queries, Triggers, DB2 Client, O/R Mapping, Hibernate, JPA, capability in client side designing and validations using HTML, CSS,JavaScript, AJAX and JSP. Expertise in various open source frameworks like Struts, Spring, JSF, and ORM technology like Hibernate 3.0, experience in developing and deploying applications through Tomcat and application servers like IBM WebSphere Web Logic and JBoss. Extensive knowledge in working with J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI,JavaBeans, JMS and Object Oriented Programming techniques, working knowledge in NoSQL Databases like HBase and Cassandra. Extensive & expert level of experience withJavaPlatform, JEE5, EJBs, JDBC, JPA, Servlets, JSP, JMS, XML, Applets, JavaScript, POJO, detailed technical knowledge on Build and Configuration Management and DevOps Engineering. Good experience on Design Patterns (J2EE) like Singleton Factory Method, DAO, Session Facade, Front Controller, and Delegate Pattern, implementation of the version control software VSS, CVS and Clear Case. Experienced in usingLog4jand good expertise in Ant tool and IVY tool. Hands on experience in UML Modeling using Rational Rose, UM Let, experience using various web/application servers like Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere and JBOSS. Strong experience with frontend technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, NodeJS, BackboneJS and good knowledge in ReactJS, EmberJS. Excellent experience in developing applications using Eclipse IDE and IBM RAD. Good experience in Object Oriented Analysis & Design (OOAD) using different design methodologies/ process frameworks like SDLC, Rational Unified Process (RUP) and tools like UML, Rational Rose. Complete understanding of Agile/SCRUM with the ability to conduct SCRUM meetings, co-ordinate team activities in a strict-deadline driven environment and maintain excellent client communication. Expertise in using J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC,JavaBeans, JMS, RMI JNDI, XML and Web services (RESTful and SOAP), proficient in developing web pages and effectively using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Pre-Processors and also experience in making web page cross browser compatible. Created and presented training materials for Groovy, Unit Testing, the Gradle build framework and others, testing tools and applications such as JUnit, Mockito, FireBug, FirePoster, SoapUI and performed Unit testing, integrated testing, and closely worked with QA team in preparation of Test plans. Extensive experience in Database Development using SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, SQLDeveloper& TOAD, Triggers and SQL Server Management Studio. Proficient in RDBMS concepts like writing SQL Queries, Functions, Stored Procedures and PL/SQL Packages and have knowledge on NoSQL Databases MongoDB and CouchDB, using Oracle SQLDeveloperGUI (Graphical User Interface) tool for database development, browse database objects, implement and edit SQL as well PL/SQL statements. Strong working experience in code development usingJava/J2EE technologies, corejava, JSP, servlet with various application servers and various frameworks, experience developing web interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, BackboneJS, Angular-JS, EXT-JS and Bootstrap. Extensive experience in developing professional User Interactive (UI) of Web applications with the help of HTML, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, Jira, RWD (Responsive Web Design), jQuery, CSS and also experience in making webpage cross browser compatible. Exploring with the Spark improving the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, Pair RDD's, Spark YARN. Experience in developing test cases and test plans besides involving in Unit testing, Integration testing and User Acceptance testing extensively. Good Knowledge of Web Application Development Technologies such as HTML, DHTML, CSS, XSLT, XML (SAX, DOM), Custom Tags,JAVASCRIPT. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Java, J2EE, PL/SQL, C, C++ JAVATechnologies: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, EJB, Web Services,JavaServer Faces(JSF), Spring Framework Web Technologies: HTML, XML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AngularJS, React.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, BackboneJS Distributed Technologies: RMI, EJB, JMS Middleware Technologies: Web Services (SOAP and Restful) XML: XML Schema, DTD, XSLT Application Server/Web Server: WebSphere, WebLogic and Apache Tomcat, Jetty, Apache ActiveMQ, Apache HTTPD Modelling Tools: Visual Paradigm for UML, Rational Rose, MS Visio Database: Oracle (version -11g, 10g, 9i), My SQL, SQL Server. MongoDB, NoSQL, HSQLDB Frameworks: Spring,ORM, Hibernate Other Tools: Log4J, JUnit, Ant, Maven, JIRA, TestRail, IBM Lotus Notes, Gradle, Visual Studio, AWS technologies Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Unix IDE: Eclipse, Oracle Jdeveloper, NetBeans, RAD Version Control Tools: SVN, CVS, GIT HUB SQL Tools: SQLDeveloper, Squirrel SQL, SQL Server Management Tool PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, San Francisco, CA Sr.Java Developer Responsibilities: Worked with business teams on requirements analysis building use cases and estimations. Generating high level and low level design documentation. DevelopedJava/J2EE code, business logic using Spring, Hibernate framework and OOP concepts, involved in Peer code reviews. Created WSDL & Generated data objects using WSDL,Java, Spring, JAX-WS, Axis, apache CXF and developed mapping code for several Web Services interfaces for various profile management endpoints. DevelopedJavamulti threaded batch offline bulk upload tool, web applications using Spring, Servlets and UI layer using JSPs, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Angular JS. Worked on implementation of new & complex implementations, critical/quick deliveries. Developed and build Ant scripts, Maven for packaging the application code. Developed database scripts and procedures using PL/SQL. Deployed code on Tomcat web application server. Validated requirement deliverables, unit testing using SOAP UI, set up & executed system endurance, performance tests using JMeter. Set up build automation & deployment to DEV, QA, PRD servers using TeamCity continuous integration platform. Built Regression suits using SOAP UI for automated regression test on CI platform. Coordinated with Architects and Security teams on defining SOAP, RESTful web services architecture and generating/managing artifacts documentation Confluence. Performed use case analysis and design SOAP, REST APIs on social integration of web and native mobile applications implementing oAuth (Ping Federate). Creating/Managing release plan, sprint deliveries, responsible for version control (SVN) and configuration of the project, keeping track of project activities - Sprint execution, planning in JIRA. Coordinated with cross functional teams on resolving integrations issues, bug fixes, RCAs, RFCs. Worked in Agile model, Conducting Daily Scrum/Stand ups, Backlog Grooming, Sprint Planning Sprint Review, Sprint Retrospective Meeting, supporting Product owner in refining and grooming product backlog. Lead development team, Motivating team and helping them work in self organized manner. Acted as Liaison Between Product Owner and Development Team, resolving impediments in order to achieve Sprint Goals. Worked as SME and SPOC for the project within Adidas CRM area. Managing knowledge sharing & resolved problems on critical issues in live system. Master Data management, Data schemas, web forms configuration, workflow /campaign maintenance and set up using Adobe Campaign (formerly Neolane) Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, corejava, JSP, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Subversion (SVN), SVN, Oracle PL/SQL, Jms, WSDL, SOAP, XML, JAX-WS, RESTful, JSON, TomCat, Eclipse, SQLDeveloper, Toad for Oracle, MS Visio, JIRA, Confluence, Maven, Ant, Beyond Compare, Team City (CI), JUnit, SOAP UI, Apache Jmeter, Unix. Confidential, Philadelphia, PA Sr.Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in design, documentation, development, UAT and production. Discussed with business and finalized requirement. Incorporated follow up changes and enhancements. Developed REST APIs using Scala and Play framework to retrieve processed data from Cassandra database. Used Scala collection framework to store and process complex device metadata and other related information. Created configuration files and self-signed certificates. Created/Updated Cassandra tables. Updated LDAP authentication from HTTP to HTTPS. Involved in setting up QA environment and configuration. Configured Sensu monitoring system for email and Slack alerts. Used AngularJS, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript for designing the UI. Used sbt (Scala Build Tool) for building the application. Used Chart.js library to plot line and bar charts using JSON data returned by the REST APIs. Used Ruby, Sinatra and WEBrick to develop HTTPS REST API that takes device MAC address as input and returns usage from SNMP channel for the device. Developed script to start Ruby REST API as service. Used Ruby, RabbitMQ and the above REST API to poll the monitoring devices every 15 minutes and store the usage info into the Cassandra database. Used HTTPS for connecting to UI, Cassandra nodes and the processing servers. Used Jenkins for building, deploying and automating. Configured Jenkins jobs in the dashboard. Used Git for version control. Used Rally for project management. Used IntelliJ Ultimate Edition for development, integration and testing. Environment: Scala 2.11, Play Framework 2.3, sbt 0.13, Cassandra 3, AngularJS 1.5, HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Ruby, Sinatra, WEBrick, Git, HTTPS, Sensu. Confidential, Jacksonville, FL Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for writing functional and technical documents for the modules developed. Extensively used J2EE design Patterns. Used Agile/Scrum methodology to develop and maintain the project. Developed and maintained web services using SOA protocol. Developed business logic using Spring MVC. Developed DAO layer using Hibernate, JPA, and Spring JDBC. Used Oracle 10g as the database and used Oracle SQLdeveloperto access the database. Used Eclipse IDE for developing the code. Used Oracle SQLdeveloperfor the writing queries or procedures in SQL. Implemented Struts tab libraries for HTML, beans, and tiles for developing User Interfaces. Extensively used Soap UI for Unit Testing. Involved in Performance Tuning of the application. Used Log4J for extensible logging, debugging and error tracing. Used Oracle Service Bus for creating the proxy WSDL and then provide that to consumers. Used JMS with Web Logic Application server. Used UNIX scripts for creating a batch processing scheduler for JMS Queue. Need to discuss with the client and the project manager regarding the new developments and the errors. Documented all the modules and deployed on server in time. Involved in Production Support and Maintenance for Application developed in the RedHat Linux. Environment: Java1.5, Spring, Hibernate, XML, XSD, XSLT, Web services, JMS, SOAP UI, Eclipse, Tomcat, IBM-UDB, Web logic, Oracle 10g, Oracle SQLdeveloper, Apache Camel. Confidential Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project. Designed Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams and Object Diagrams in the detailed design phase of the project using Rational Rose 4.0. Developed presentation layer of the project using HTML, JSP 2.0, JSTL and JavaScript technologies. Developed complete Business tier using Stateless and Stateful Session beans with EJB 2.0 standards using WebSphere Studio ApplicationDeveloper(WSAD 5.0). Used various J2EE design patterns, like DTO, DAO, and Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, Singleton and Factory patterns. Consumed Web Service for transferring data between different applications. Used Object/Relational mapping Hibernate 3.0framework as the persistence layer for interacting with Oracle 9i. Environment: Java1.5, JSP 2.0, HTML, JavaScript, EJB 2.0, Struts 1.1, JDBC 2.0, IBM Web Sphere 5.0, XML, XSLT, XML Schema, JUnit 3.8.1, Rational Rose 4.0, Ant 1.5, UML, Hibernate 3, Oracle 9i and Windows. Confidential, New York, NY Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in developing real time application for the daily moving trades in Futures and Commodities market. Worked on junit framework for unit testing. Involved in deploying applications into QA, DEV and UAT environments. Involved in designing 3 various application implementing SPRING MVC Architecture. Writing standaloneJavaclasses, reusable components using JDBC andJavaBeans for getting data from SQL tables. Used Gradle to build and deploy the application on web logic server. Developed Message Driver Beans to receive the messages from the EMS Provider. Used SVN for version control and used IntelliJ as the IDE for developing the application. Worked on struts html, logic, bean tags in JSP. Tested SOAP web services using SOAP UI and REST web services using REST Client. Developed Unix shell (ksh) scripts to automate most of the engineering and testing. Defined Web Services using XML-based Web Services Description Language. Responsible for Detail design and GUI development. Implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR and dependency JARS and deploy the entire project onto the WebLogic Application Server. Developed frontend of application using Boot Strap (Model, View, Controller), Angular.js framework. Responsible for customer interaction, analysis of the requirements and project scheduling. Written SQL and stored procedures as part of database interaction. Database design and connectivity done by using JDBC Bridge. Strong experience of developing data models using Hibernate ORM tools, POJOs and configuring Hibernate persistence layer. Experience in implementing Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) using Axis framework. Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML and CSS, JQuery. Good working experience with various operating system platforms including Windows, UNIX and LINUX. Developed Hibernate DAO classes and with the Spring Framework manager classes retrieve and save the data from the database. Implemented Struts Bean Tags, Logical Tags and Display Tags in JSPs. Worked on different Web Applications Servers like Web Sphere, BEA WebLogic, Apache Tomcat and JBoss. Developed Message Driver Beans to receive the messages from the JMS Provider. As a team we have followed Software Development Life Cycle. Confidential, Camp Hill, PA Java Developer Responsibilities: Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant. Used jQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes. Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups. Designed and developed creative intuitive user interfaces that address business and end-user needs, while considering the technical, physical and temporal constraints of the users. Used Bootstrap library to quickly build project UI's and used AngularJS framework to associate HTML elements to models. Extensive experience on using Angular directives, working on attribute level, element level and class level directives. Utilized modular structure within the Angular JS application in which different functionalities within the application were divided into different modules. Interfaced with third-party vendors to customize UI/UX solutions for web verticals. Developed JavaScript library for rendering domain-specific layout XML to the web. Developed code to call the web service/APIs to fetch the data and populate on the UI using JQUERY/AJAX. Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using AngularJS framework, JavaScript, and jQuery in conjunction with HTML, CSS standards, with front-end UI team. Application integration with Spring Web Services to fetch data from external Benefits application using SOA architecture, configuring WSDL based on SOAP specifications. Used kafka APIs to pipeline the data streaming between the application and database. Used MySQL database to save and retrieve data about user subscription and payment information. Developed Mobile Apps using JQuery Mobile. Responsible for making responsive web pages using twitter bootstrap and media queries. Designed and developed CSS pre-processors (SASS and Compass).