SUMMARY 5+ years of experience in User Interface Design, User Experience and drive project direction and roadmap. Hands - on experience with all stages of a user-centered design process from user research, conception, interaction design. Good knowledge of Web 2.0 and W3C Standards. Experience in building of complex enterprise applications from a graphical user interface & user experience perspective. Experience in web development to ConvertHTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Node JS,MeteorJS, Bootstrap, JSP, JSTL, ReactJS, Angular 2 and Angular 4 Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript. Good experience in Mobile web application development. Experience in Java Technologies like JSP, Servlets Proficient in developing an application with open source tools and technologies like JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap,etc. Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture. Experienced in working with Redux architecture Experience in Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and thorough understanding of requirements gathering analysis/design, development and testing. Experience in waterfall model, agile development methodology. Strong in developing standards-based optimized CSS-driven, table-less layouts, which are compatible with all major browsers and use hacks wherever necessary. Testing JavaScript using Jasmine 2.0. Developed user interface by using the ReactJS, Flux for SPA development. Very good experience with writing APIs which return JSON objects to be consumed by any application Ability to lead, manage & communicate with all levels of associates. Self-supervising, consensus building, team player. Strong understanding of Object Oriented Programming. Provided UX services including interpreting requirements, creating concept designs, producing detailed design documentation, and facilitating design walkthroughs. Experienced user of UX software such as InVision,Axure, Balsamiq Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and trouble-shooter with strong attention to detail. Demonstrated ability to complete projects in deadline oriented environments. Capable of quickly learning and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team. Possess good team-management and leadership qualities. Designed graphic objects, animated images (Vector, Bitmap), templates, presentations, banners, buttons, graphic objects, user interfaces, Rich Internet Applications (RIA’s) using various multimedia technologies on Adobe Flash, Action Script 3.0, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Adobe Illustrator CS5, Adobe Fireworks, Ulead Photo Impact, GIF Animator and other third party cutting edge tools. Familiar with popular browser debugging tools for common browsers (Chrome, Mozilla, Safari) such as Firebug and Chrome Inspector Element. Experience managing daily communication with an offshore development teams. Excellent analytical and communication skills with capability to handle new technologies TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3,DHTML,XHTMLJavaScript, JSP, XML,AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Angular JS, React JS, MeteorJS, Angular 1.x, Angular 2, Angular 4 Operating systems: Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X UML TOOLS: Rational Rose, MS Visio Debugging Tools: Firebug, Chrome Developer Toolbar, IE Developer Toolbar Scripting: JavaScript, JQuery, Prototype JS, JSON, AJAX, Node JS, ReactJS,ES5,ES6,Typescript Client side Frameworks: AngularJS, Bootstrap Tools: & Utilities: WinScp, Jasmine, Karma Development Tools: Adobe Photoshop CS5, Google Ad Words, Yahoo Search Marketing(spring tool suite) IDE & Tools: Eclipse, Sublime Text, Dreamweaver, Notepad++, Net Beans, Visual Studio Code PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, New Jersey UI Developer Responsibilities: Created design mock-ups and wire frames using MS PowerPoint, Adobe Photoshop CS4, Balsamiq, InVision and Dreamweaver CS3. Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Redux, Flux. Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap Improved user experience by designing front-end interface mock-ups and adjusting UX flows/ wireframes. Developed and administered usability testing and user research initiatives. Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers. Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout. Provided graphic and artistic support for web enhancement and new creative initiatives. DesignatedUIarchitecture for the internal web application and worked with designers to constructs conceptual Wireframes and Mockups. Developing user interface by using the ReactJS, Redux for SPA development. Managing daily communication with an offshore development teams. Using OOPS concepts for improving the performance of the websites Setup the deployment architecture with Author and publish Instances to validate authoring and publish run mode configurations. Solid experience and understanding of building applications for different platforms (web, mobile browsers, etc.) and their unique characteristics. Preparing the detailed design document for the business and technical requirements. Conducting design reviews DesignatedUIarchitecture for the internal web application and worked with designers to constructs conceptual Wireframes and Mockups. Created Redux forms to collect and validate data from the user Involved in gathering of requirements from the UI designers team and the users. Used SASS Preprocessor for CSS. Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc. Environment: HTML5, Agile Methodology, Servlets, CSS3, JavaScript,JQuery,AngularJS,ReactJS,Redux,Flux, Bootstrap Confidential, Boston, MA UI Developer Responsibilities: Created design mock-ups and wire frames using MS PowerPoint, Adobe Photoshop CS4, Balsamiq, InVision and Dreamweaver CS3. Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Redux, Flux. Improved user experience by designing front-end interface mock-ups and adjusting UX flows/ wireframes. Developed and administered usability testing and user research initiatives. Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers. Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout. Provided graphic and artistic support for web enhancement and new creative initiatives. DesignatedUIarchitecture for the internal web application and worked with designers to constructs conceptual Wireframes and Mockups. Performed unit-Testing using Jest Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and ReactJS. Created Redux forms to collect and validate data from the user Extensively used JQuery in implementing various GUI components in application portal. Developing user interface by using the ReactJS, Redux for SPA development. Managing daily communication with an offshore development teams. Using OOPS concepts for improving the performance of the websites. Creating Custom Reusable ReactComponents Library. Involved in gathering of requirements from the UI designers team and the users. Used SASS Preprocessor for CSS. Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc. Creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, React Native concepts. Unit-testing using Jest. Environment: HTML5, Agile Methodology, Servlets, CSS3, JavaScript,JQuery,AngularJS,ReactJS,Redux,Flux, Bootstrap Confidential, Dallas TX UI Developer Responsibilities: Created design mock-ups and wire frames using MS PowerPoint, Adobe Photoshop CS4, Balsamiq, InVision and Dreamweaver CS3. Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Redux, Flux, NodeJS, BackboneJS,MeteorJS Experience building structured MVC web applications using JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, MeteorJS,jQuery, Express, MongoDB. Developed enhancements to MongoDB architecture to improve performance and scalability. Used JQuery to make the HTML5, CSS interact with JavaScript functions and to add dynamism to the web page. Improved user experience by designing front-end interface mock-ups and adjusting UX flows/ wireframes. Developed table less HTML (DIV and SPAN) in a DOM based architecture. Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML, XHTML, and CSS3. Developed and administered usability testing and user research initiatives. Used Angular.JS, jQuery to handle all the functionalities in the page.Used AJAX to display the dynamic data in some parts of the page. Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers. Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout. Provided graphic and artistic support for web enhancement and new creative initiatives. DesignatedUIarchitecture for the internal web application and worked with designers to constructs conceptual Wireframes and Mockups. Developed an effective system for maintaining archived content by adapting to search engine algorithms. Involved in testing AngularJS using Jasmine 2.0, Karma,Protractor Used BackboneJS for connecting the API's which enforces the communication to the server while also implemented mock services in NodeJSwith the help of modules using ExpressJS. Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and ReactJS. Developed new user interface features by using the React JS for SPA development. Created various Modules/Controllers/Components/directives for the application using Angular 2 and typescript. Worked on different changed procedures of Angular 1.x to Angular 2.0 Enhanced legacy application by building new components in Angular 2 and typescript. Used Angular 2 routing,navigation,components and services. Involved in building theUIusing bootstrap. Involved in designing and developing the webpages utilizing HTML, CSS3 and JavaScript leveraging the Bootstrap framework. Used JavaScript, AngularJS, and jQuery for user interactions in pages. Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript Built an Angular 2 based web portal through TypeScript programming, divided the whole website into different page components, used routers to manage page links and grant permissions Implemented Angular 4 concepts: Interpolation, Input variables, Bootstrapping, NgFor, NgIf, RouterOutlet, binding the click event, Component decorator, binding to the hidden property. Extensively used JQuery in implementing various GUI components in application portal. Environment: HTML5, Agile Methodology, Servlets, JDBC, Design Patterns, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, MeteorJS,AngularJS, ReactJS, Redux, Flux, JSP, Angular 4, Angular 2, Bootstrap,Jasmine,Karma,Protractor,Typescript. Confidential, Columbus OH UI/UX Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for creating front end using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery. Extensively used media queries and bootstrap for responsive web design Designed and developed the application to be responsive for desktop, mobile and tablets using Twitter Bootstrap (HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and AngularJS). Responsible for design and development of GUI using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax. Experience with JQuery, Angular.JS. Utilized various JavaScript and Jquery libraries, Ajax for form validation and other interactive features. Utilized an Ajax component (DOJO) in presentation layer. Testing AngularJS using Jasmine 2.0, Karma Enhanced legacy application by building new components in AngularJS and typescript. Used ReactJSfor templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components. Developed user interface using the Redux,Flux Arhitectures. Worked with team to define UI framework for visualizations and Strategic UX Conceptualizations Leveraged Spring as an IOC container for resolving application-wide dependencies. Utilized Spring MVC Component that is responsible for handling the request is a Simple form Controller and a controller. Enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVC pattern for improved source code maintenance which resulted in enhanced performance. Involved in gathering of requirements from the UI designers team and the users. Used SASS Preprocessor for CSS. Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Twitter Bootstrap, custom media queries, etc. Involved in building theUIusing bootstrap. Wrote APIs in Perl as well as Python which accepts parameters and returns the response in the form of a JSON object. Involved in a team which used SOAP UI to create and execute automated functional, regression and load tests of web services. Created AJAX calls using AngularJS to handle data operations including ordering & filtering. Worked with team to define UI framework for visualizations and Strategic UX Conceptualizations. Conducted contextual analysis to gather user feedback; improved UXin the following iterations Involved in Design and Development of transaction management and security features. Involved in design of Class, Sequence & Event Diagrams as part of Documentation. Created Gateway for inbound and outbound traffic such as web services (SOAP, REST) including mutual authentication. Developing the sites for online trading using E-Commerce such as Electronic Data Exchange. Implemented the project using the agile methodologies like scrum. Created design mock-ups and wire frames using MS PowerPoint, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Balsamiq, InVision and Dreamweaver CS3. Environment: ReactJS, Spring, Servlet,HTML5, Java Script, NodeJS, AngularJS,Bootsrap, Web services, Agile, Redux, Flux, Adobe Photoshop CS5, Balsamiq, InVision Dreamweaver CS3, Photoshop, Fireworks, Visio, Wire Frame Works Confidential Web Developer Responsibilities: Working as a UI Developer for internal application Developed the front-end web page by using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript,jQuery. Working with browsers compatibility issues. Integrated with the back-end code using JQUERY, JSON and AJAX to get and post the data to servers. Estimated time to develop for all approved prototypes and the implementation of those prototypes using jQuery and CSS as well as showing to project leads and receiving and implementing any changes or implementation updates Responsible for creating the JavaScript code, for different modules. Implemented various JavaScript/jQuery UI effects for the web pages. Involved in fixing Front-End issues with the layouts. Developed JSPs for front-end screens and validation using JavaScript. Involved in designing usecase diagrams and class diagrams. Environment: JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, CSS, HTML, XHTML, STS 