SUMMARY 7+ years of professional experience on the development phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle). Good working experience of Agile Methodology (Scrum, extreme programming), Waterfall model and Test - driven development (TDD). Experience in Object Oriented Analysis & Design (OOAD) using unique design methodologies/ process frameworks like SDLC and tools like UML, Rational Rose. Well experience in design and development using languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, AJAX, Bootstrap, JQUERY, JSON, JSP tag libraries, XML, XSLT. Expertise in Multi-Tier Web Applications, Enterprise Applications using J2EE technologies (JAVA, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, and XML). Expertise in Core JAVA components such as Synchronization, Persistency, Run-Time Optimization. Expertise in Core JAVA with concepts of Multithreading, Collections. Working experience in using Object/Relational bridge technologies such as Hibernate. Hands on experience in Hibernate, Hibernate Query Language HQL, Transactions, Exceptions. Expertise in developing data models using Hibernate, JPA Object relational mapping (ORM) Frameworks & also used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level. Experience in web applications using Struts, Spring framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), DAO (Data Access Object), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming). Strong Experience in Spring Framework, for example, Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, DI, Spring-Boot, REST, Spring Integration, Spring Testing, and Spring JDBC, Spring Batch, Spring Securities. Solid hands-on involvement with Spring IO, Spring Boot actualizing REST. Utilized configuration designs patterns like Singleton, DAO, Front Controller, Factory, Session Facade, and DTO. Developed Web services based on SOA using RESTful, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-RS, JAX-WS. Experience in using Application servers and Web servers such as BEA Web Logic server, JBOSS server, IBM Web Sphere and Apache Tomcat. Experience working on database design and development using SQL, PL/SQL in Oracle (10g, 11g), DB2 and SQL Server environments and experienced in using NoSQL databases like MongoDB. Experience in unit testing using Junit, Mockito. Experience in DevOps management tools like Jenkins and Sonar. Good Handling of Testing frameworks like Jasmine and Mocha. Experience in logging application with the log4j. Integration web services tool like Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) had working experience. Experience in using the tools like Apache Ant and Maven for build automation. Experience in using GIT, SVN, CVS, and Rational Clear Case for version controlling, error reporting and project management tools like JIRA is used for bug/issue tracking. Experience in using the Integrated development environments like Eclipse, Net Beans and JBuilder. Experience in developing applications on operating systems like Windows, UNIX and Linux. Domain knowledge and business expertise in Banking, Healthcare, finance, Insurance, E-Commerce. Excellent team player with great critical thinking and interpersonal skills. Involvement in end-to-end implementation and integration of projects and finished them effectively with in deadlines. Also, had a hand on the documentation of the project for reuse. History of low increase times with an enthusiasm for adapting new technologies and skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages:  C, C++, Java 7&8 features, SQL, PL/SQL, UML2.X, Scala. Mark-up/XML Technologies:  HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript, Angular Js, JQuery, Ajax, SAX/DOM, JSON. Tools: & Frameworks Struts, J2EE, Client-Server, Spring2.x/3.x, Hibernate 2.x/3.x/4.x, Mule ESB, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JMS, JSF, Junit, AJAX, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, and Spring Security. Web services:  SOAP, Restful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS JAX-WS, Micro Services. Web/Application Servers:  Tomcat 8.x/9.x, Weblogic 12c, IBM WebSphere 9.x, IBM BPM 8.5/8.0/7.5, JBoss, Apache. Database:  Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL server 12.0, MySQL, Mongo DB. Development Tools (IDEs):  Eclipse8.x/7.x/6.x/3.x/2.1.1, My Eclipse6.0/5.1.1, NetBeans, Spring Tool Suite (STS). Testing Tools:  Junit 4.x, JIRA, Soap UI, Mockito, Rational Clear Quest. Version Control:  CVS, SVN, Rational clear case, GIT OS & Environment:  Windows Vista/XP/2000/NT, Linux, UNIX PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Pittsburgh, PA Senior Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in distinct phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, and Maintenance. Designed and developed application with Agile methodology and involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint. Designed Low-Level Architecture for Microservices and estimating LOE (Level of effort) for programming application. Analyzing, programming, utilizing existing commerce functionality for migrating to updated technology (Micro service Architecture). Implementing distributed and high-loaded system with massive back office system and integrating based on IBM Web E-Commerce platform. Extensively, involved in Identity portal management developing the Micro services with latest technology and frameworks using Java/JEE, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Data, Jhipster, Docker, Mongo Db, SQL. Working on both SQL and No-SQL databases, Mostly focused on learning migration of data from SQL to No-SQL(Oracle to Mongo Db). Involved in documentation and creation of nodes for no-SQL (Mongo DB) in Linux Operating system (local, Development, Testing, and production). Created nodes and replicas for the Identity, Accounts, and product management projects. Used Spring-data module to communicate with Mongo DB and Map Reduce to consolidate the data. Backup and restored mongo DB. Implemented Restful service to generate email functionality with AOP concept to get all attachment which is generated at the level of account creation in three different regions. Involved in Server Configurations, Data Sources, Connection Pooling and deploying the apps on Web Application Server. Involved in AWS deployment services to quickly set up a dynamic website and configured virtual servers using AWS EC2 and responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure. Searching the documents used Elastic Search and Storing the data AWS S3. Developing services to communicate with Web to Mainframe and Mainframe to Web with Queue Messaging. Practicing Agile and project tracking by using tools like JIRA, Confluence. For update of code check-in and check-out are being processed by Version Controller like GIT Stash. Monitors the applications when it is successfully deployed in the production servers. Documents and reports the technical enhancements for the existing application. Prioritizes the work according to critical tasks levels and executes in a simple and easy way. Collaborates and handles the task in both team and independently. Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Spring Boot Framework, XML, SQL, UML, Micro Services, Apache Tomcat, JQuery, AJAX, SOA, Junit, Jira, Mongo dB, Oracle, MySql, Log4j, Maven, Eclipse, Intellij, IBM RAD, IBM WebSphere, AWS. Confidential, Oaks, PA Sr. Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance. Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint. Designed the dynamic and web compatible pages using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap. Application classes are developed by Core Java collections, Exception handling, Generics, Design patterns are used and they are for client data like created Services, Business Delegate, Pojo, Controller and DAO. Used Java collection API extensively such as Lists, Sets and Maps. Java Util packages to make the application more interactive with the collection frameworks and annotation. Extensively Implemented Spring Boot, dependency Injection (DI) and AOP. Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern usingSpringFramework. Implemented transaction management in the DAO layer and configured the Spring Declarative. Used MVC annotations extensively to configure the controllers. Developed Backend Spring services and spring data access layer using Spring Boot and Mongo DB. Developed REST architecture based web services to facilitate communication between client- server. Involved in the implementation of the RESTful web services using the Spring Boot and to perform CURD operation from the database published the REST services. parsed the data to project to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security. Designed and developed Spring boot adapter applications using rest API. Developed Grid smart Adapter spring boot application working with grid smart Traffic API Vendor. Developed spring boot applications using spring data. Expertise in implementing Micro Services using spring, spring boot and spring cloud. Implemented client-server business applications using Micro services. Developed the asynchronous sending message services by the JMS MQ. Installed, configured and hosted the Oracle DB. Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures for the application in Oracle. For the exchange of data between the applications modules used the JSON. Encryption and decryption of the application used the web services security. Creating detailed Junit test for producing the clear and actual functionality of the application. To generate reports for the batch services used the Spring Batch, created test cases of Junit for testing the DAO layer. Expertise in implementing Micro Services using spring, spring boot and spring cloud. UsedXPATHto retrieve value from XML messages andXSLTto transform XML messages from one format to another Changed the oracle based data source toJBossbased data source. Developed the application on Spring One Source and deployed it onJBOSS. Hands onSOA and Web servicesto get the data back and forth. UsedJMSpublish/subscribe model to interact with other systems asynchronously. The revenue data was pushed to multiple systems using theJMSmodel. UsedJBoss Fuse ESBto create mediation or route message between Services Refractor the code to make application more efficient and clean by eliminating dead code and duplicate code Implemented client-server business applications using Micro services. Developed the asynchronous sending message services by the JMS MQ. Involved in server configurations, Data Sources, Connection Pooling and deploying the apps on JBoss Application Server.Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions. Involved in building the code using Maven and deployed on server. Version controls like GIT Used GIT for source code version controlling. Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing, best practices and provide guidance in making long-term architectural design decisions. Environment: Core Java 1.7/1.8, Servlets, JDBC, Java Util Packages, Java Script, Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JSP, Hibernate 3.x, Spring Framework, XML, SQL, Eclipse, UML, Agile Methodology, Microservices, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, JQuery, AJAX, SOA, Junit, Jira, Unix Shell Script, Mongo dB, Log4j, Maven. Confidential, Bloomfield, CT Java Developer Responsibilities: Designed use cases for the Application as per the business requirements. Requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions held using Agile methodology. Design and developed the application with Agile methodology and involved in the technical design document, planning and necessary requirement for the testing the document. Worked with HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript for developing user interface. By using the Core Java developed the Business logics and components along with that used Multithreading, Java API, Collections API, Servlets, and JSP. Involved in development of services based architecture utilizing open source technology like Hibernate ORM. Business logic using Spring service layer, Spring Dao layer using Spring Framework and transaction management in DAO layer. Configured and implemented Spring declarative transaction manager. Developed Server-side components based on Struts MVC and the persistence layer build on Hibernate ORM framework and Hibernate-EH Cache for second level caching to increase the usability of the database and reduce the time process for the retrieval of data from the web logic. Developed helper classes, delegate classes, value objects to access business tier and transfer the information from business layer to the presentation layer. Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template. Developed business layer using EJB stateless session bean and deployed on the Web logic server. Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the database. Spring Securities are used for the authentication. Developed web service client using Spring Framework and REST HTTP protocol to get customer credentials and information. Developed REST Web services to make web service calls simple and easy for the client to access it with the help of standard HTTP URIs. Implement and manage High Availability (Replication) and Load balancing cluster of Mongo DB having TB’s of databases. Worked with Mongo DB to retrieve the data from a real-time meetup API. Used Spring-data module to communicate with Mongo DB. Worked with MongoDB MapReduce to consolidate the data. Add / remove replica and shard nodes in Mongo DB Cluster as needed. Backup and restore mongo DB. Design and implement of indexing strategies for huge data sets. Monitor deployments for capacity and performance. Implement MMS monitoring and backup (MongoDB Management Services) on cloud and local servers. Used AWS deployment services to quickly set up a dynamic website and configured virtual servers using AWS EC2 and responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure. Performed Tuning, Load Balancing and optimization of WebLogic Application Server Logical implementation at the client side is developed by the JQuery core library functions. Involved in writing JUnit test cases, unit and integration testing of the application. Established communication between the client and server by the JSON objects. Initially, at project development Ant used for the build framework and but to reduce the complexity of the application used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system. Used SVN for Version Control. Actively involved in code reviews and in bug fixing. Involved in build modules like Linux environment and used shell script to deploy. Environment: Java, JSP, JavaScript, Angular Js, Ajax, JQuery, Ant, Spring 3.x, SOAP and REST Web Services, Hibernate, SVN, JUNIT, EJB, Mongo dB, WebLogic, AWS, Eclipse IDE, Linux, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, XML, SOA, JSP, JMS MQ, JUnit, Jenkins, Ant, Maven. Confidential, Madison, WI Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance. Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the planning. Application classes are developed by Core Java collections, Exception handling. Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript. Developed front end JSF as per client given wireframes along with JQuery, CSS3 and HTML5. Implemented two-way data binding using Angular JS and developed the SPA by the Backbone.JS. JQuery library has been used for creation of powerful dynamic web applications by using its advanced and cross browser functionality. Used AJAX to make the web application more interactive without refreshing the data frequently. Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using Core Java and JEE. Implemented Spring MVC architecture to send and receive the data from front-end to business layer and Used JDBC, Spring JPA. Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in Spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations. Used Hibernate for ORM, data persistence and wrote HQL queries to directly interact with the database. Involved in spring and Hibernate Integration. Implemented various J2EE design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Value Object and Data Access Object. Spring Security are used for Authentication and Authorization of the application. Used Spring Batch for the response of the batch web services. Developed application using SOAP services with JAX-WS frameworks. Web services - WSDL and SOAP for obtaining required information from third party application. Also, developed the RESTful API, to interact with the different type of document and convert to appropriate version to handle. Developed web applications and coordinated with other teams and web-service providers. Managing/Troubleshooting MySQL in production and developer environments on Unix. Performed installation, new databases design, configuration, backup, recovery, security, upgrade and schema changes, tuning and data integrity. Increased database performance by utilizing MySQL config changes, multiple instances and by upgrading hardware. Assisted with sizing, query optimization, buffer tuning, backup and recovery, installations, upgrades and security including other administration functions as part of profiling plan. Deployed the applications on WebLogic Application Server and monitored performance. Used open source version controls CVS, to retrieve, and backup data. Prepared test cases and executed them using Junit in eclipse. Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework and debug messages. Involved in build modules like Unix environment with Ant script. Environment: Java, JSF, Spring 2.x (IOC/DI), Hibernate 2.x(ORM), SOAP, Session Beans, MYSQL, JDBC, XML, Web logic application server, Maven, Log4j, Junit, Eclipse, Oracle, CVS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, JPA, JSP, HTML/HTML5, CSS. Confidential Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Ensured quality of deliverables, high team productivity and efficiency in meeting required deadlines. Involved in complete life cycle of design, development, testing and deployment of application. Agile methodology was adopted in the development. This includes daily Scrum calls. Designed and developed sub system by SOA, JSPs, Core Java, J2EE, Entity beans and Session Beans. Custom User Interfaces is developed by using the JSP custom tags. Design components based on object oriented design using UML. Developed complete Web tier of the application using Struts Framework Designed and implemented the UI using JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, and AJAX. Developed SQL queries and Stored Procedures for retrieving the data from several databases. GIT was used to manage the application source code. Created branches to individual development. Responsible for deploying the application in to the Web Sphere Application Server. Involve in designing the reports and integrate it in to the application. Used Log4j framework to log/track application. Closely working with testing team for better understanding the business logic. Environment: SOA, JSP, Entity Beans 1.2, Servlets 2.x, Java Script, Struts, Oracle 10g, Eclipse, Web Sphere, Log4j, Web services, JQuery, HTML, CSS, XML, AJAX, GIT. 