SUMMARY Over all 5+ Years of professional IT experience including around 3+years of RPA Process implementation using different tools experience in Blue Prism, UI Path Development. Experience in Troubleshooting and Debugging Blue Prism automations using tool strong ability to convert business logic/requirements to automations. Support and Analysis of business processes at operational level, provide recommendations and potential RPA solutions for individual process and process integration. Implemented RPA tools by defining user roles, creating users and setting password policies. Expertise with Control Room Resource, Session Management, Blue Prism Calculation functions and debugging of Process Solutions. Identified opportunity to Automate manual tasks using Robotics Process Automation (RPA) technology and established Commercial - wide RPA program to deliver the first software bot in production. Strong and precise understanding of technological limitations and clear understanding of Windows/Web/Citrix app integrations. Worked on Integrating applications like (Web, Services, Mainframe, MS Office, SAP, Outlook etc.) using workflow, automation tools Blue Prism. Experience in Excel VBA Macros for automating Excel spreadsheets. Experience in managing Robot's workloads using Blue Prism Work Queues. Experience in Agile, Waterfall Methodologies with clear understanding of Iterative and Evolutionary principles. Ability to work independently and to manage several assignments simultaneously to Meet Deadlines. Excellent interpersonal skills, ability to work in a team as well as independently. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: C, C#.Net, CSS, HTML, XML. Databases: SQL 2012/2008, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g. Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows NT2000/7/XP/Vista, Windows Server 2008. Automation Tools: Blue Prism, UIPath. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential -Green Bay,WI RPA Developer Responsibilities: Creating robotic process Automation to halp Confidential recover from a 40 hour downtime of their core system, OTM. Create an end to end process to catch up from the downtime. Develop Existing Process to work in Integrated application with OTM. Working with business for the Initial process analysis and feasibility of the process. Working closely with the business to develop PDD (Process Definition Documents). Worked on creation of SDD (Solution Design Documents). Working on development of objects, actions, queues and processes. Attending meetings and contributing to overall design of the project. Worked with OTM6.4, Windows, Web based applications. Propose RPA solution and benefits to new business and influence them to embrace automation journey. Troubleshoot issues and assist in technical challenges faced by other team members from immediate team other teams across working on RPA. Experience in deployment at VM environment. Creating a Flowchart of Blue Prism inputs that will update their system and when an error occurs, produce an exception report for the team to finish up manually. Experience on working with Different Business Teams With same client location. Environment: RPABluePrism V6.4, OTM, .NET, VBA, HTML. Confidential - Springdale, AR RPA Developer Responsibilities: Updatebots as per the client's requirement. Involved in designing solutions utilizingRPAsoftware, maintain technical responsibility for project delivery as the technical resource on a project. Creation of access control interfaces via the Application Modeler, within Object Studio. Maintain and the severalRPAbots as batch processes on daily basis and ensure quality and high performance to the internal and vendor applications of the organization. Automated various processes involved inSAP, billing system and CRM systems such as Account Creation, invoice generation, Order Creation, Order Submission, Creation of accounts etc., to simplify the work for Service desk using Blue Prism. Worked closely with Process to prepare Process Definition Document (PDD) & Solution Design Document (SDD) and to work with Bots in production. Experience in staging and deploying the Automation solution into test and live Environments and efficiently Handled monitoring and troubleshooting theBluePrismenvironment through Control room. Efficiently handled monitoring and troubleshooting the Blue Prism environment through Control room. Helping the client to understand the benefits ofRPAover traditional automation with various seminars, use cases and on-premise installation with development of proposed solution onRPAusing Blue Prism. Environment: RPABluePrism V6.3, SAP,.NET, VBA, HTML, XML, CSS, AWS Server, Visual Studio Confidential - Richmond, VA RPA Developer Responsibilities: Analysis the scope of Automation in existing process. Design, Development & Implement solutions with Robotic Process Automation in Risk Management and Quality Assurance. Ability to develop and document RPA configuration best practices, configure new RPA processes and objects using core workflow principles that are efficient, well structured, maintainable and easy to understand. Work with business teams to understand the current business processes and scope the automation. Propose RPA solution and benefits to new business and influence them to embrace automation journey. Troubleshoot issues and assist in technical challenges faced by other team members from immediate team / other teams across working on RPA. Experience in deployment at VM environment. Automating the web data entry by importing the values in the CSV file. Creation, development and maintenance of automated Reporting of Daily Extracts processes in Excel, also considering running dis in MS SQL Server. Working on Robotic Process Automation usingBluePrism. Design solution, Implemented Blue prism frame work (Connectors, VBO, Process studio, control room and System manager) work to update the Provider directory from excel, website data using OCR (Optical character recognition) from printed material. Experienced in buildingBluePrismProcesses and Business Objects for various business systems. ImplementedBluePrismUser autantication by defining user roles, creating users and setting password policies. Strong experience in Robotic Process Automation (RPA) from requirements gathering, solution designing, coding, testing, debugging, documentation and implementation on Blue prism tool. Helping the client to understand the benefits of RPA over traditional Automation with various seminars, use cases and on-premise installation with development of proposed solution on RPA usingBluePrism. Involved in Process Management, Defining, Designing, Development and Testing. Environment: RPABluePrism,.NET, VBA, HTML, XML, CSS, SQL Server, Visual Studio. Confidential - Ashburn, VA RPA Developer Responsibilities: Writing solution design and technical specifications documents. Read files from shared drive in 3 formats - Excel, word, pdf. Create calculations sheets in excel template based on input from different format files data. Create Journal Entry files. Post Journal entries files in SAP. Pull data from SAP periodically and add daily bank statement and other manually created files data. Create final Roll-Forward report and perform various rule based validations and inform respective team. Involved in all phases of Testing, UAT and Production. Worked on UI Path Desktop Automation for manual processes, modify user interfaces and add procedural/process guidance to workflows. Providing production support of automated process to ensure stability. Involved in End to End development of Business Process using Robotic Process Automation. Performed requirement analysis by gathering both functional and non-functional requirements based on interactions with process owners, stake holders, and designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging, Documentation and Implementation of Business Process Solutions. Supporting existing processes and implementing change requirements as part of a structured change control process. Working within project planning constraints, communicating any identified project risks and issues to the delivery/project manager accordingly and providing inputs to the change control process. Environment: UiPath(RPATool), SAP,.NET, VBA, HTML, XML, CSS, SQL Server, Visual Studio. Confidential - Atlanta Georgia RPA Developer Responsibilities: Participated in the creation of Design documents, Developing Pages as per requirement and also created the Unit Test Cases and User Manual. Worked on UI Path Desktop Automation for manual processes, modify user interfaces and add procedural/process guidance to workflows. Authored various Desktop Automations using UI Path Studio and .Net that produced exponential results of reducing time and staff, streamlining processes and increasing productivity Involved in developing some of the application, designing the project and supporting to team members Developed code to read data from bulk of excels using C#.Net tan injected to automation tool, designed and implemented parallel processing mechanism to achieve less time (customer goal) Involved in bulk mail sending as batch and developed RPA Automated different processes for the application development. Involved in designing and developing Robotic Process Automations using UI Path. Coordinated with different teams to ensure successful running of the application. Proactively designedRPATasks as per application and business requirements. Communicating to Onsite team for requirements and project progress update Involved in Agile scrum calls / meetings and communicating to QA team. Created defects and managed properly using Quality Center. Environment: UI Path, C#.NET, Windows Application, Windows 7, MS Office, RTC, .Net Framework 4.0. Confidential .Net developer Responsibilities: Developed the application using ASP.NET, C# with SQL Server 2008 as backend. Implemented the Object - Oriented programming concepts in developing 'Tracking' and 'Statistical analysis' modules using ASP.Net MVC4.0. Implemented Model-view-controller (MVC) web development. Created User Controls, Data Access Layer, and Business Logic Layer Classes using C# and ASP.Net 4.0 for web pages. Created Client-side validations with JavaScript and Server side validations with ASP.Net 4.0. Involved in creating .NET Reports to present the data in different views. Created a PHP MVC framework that separates data, action, and view modules for rapid development of backend administration and maintenance. Participated in the whole life cycle of the project, including the design phase of the project, which was designed using ASP.NET, C# and ADO.NET.