SUMMARY Adobe CQ5 Developer with 8+ years of experience in developing and implementing Enterprise Solutions for Distributed Software products and applications using Java technologies. 4 years of experience in web development specializing on Adobe Experience Management (AEM) platform (formerly Day CQ). Better understanding of Classic/Touch Modes of AEM 6.0 & 6.1 Experienced in developing Day CQ Components, Page Templates, Workflows and Custom widgets using JSP, OSGI bundles, sling services, custom. Worked on design and implementation of modules on Adobe CQ 5.4 and Adobe CQ 5.5. Have a solid understanding of CQ5 building blocks, CRX repository, leveraging web content management components for customization and porting of websites. Good understanding of end - to-end content lifecycle, web content management, content publishing/deployment, and delivery processes Experience in web technologies including XML, XHTML, client/server-side scripting languages such as JavaScript, JSP, and web services development using RESTful implementations Strong experience in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML and Java Script. Developed custom CQ components on top of JCR (Java Content Repository) and Apache Sling (A REST based web development framework on top of JCR), CRX (Day's commercial JCR Implementation), and CQ5 (Day's latest suite of WCM, DAM and Social Collaboration applications). Extensive programming in Web Technologies likes JSP, JavaScript, XML, XHTML, AJAX, JQuery, Adobe CQ5 APIs, Apache Sling, OSGi bundles. Experienced in developing Custom bundles and Servlets on Felix. Good web page design skills using HTML, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, jQuery and Java Script. Experience in working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements Mastery of all core web technologies including XML, XHTML, client/server-side scripting languages such as Java Script, and JSP, and web services development using REST-full implementations. Deep understanding of and hands-on development experience with relevant "Java CMS" frameworks including Apache Sling for content-centric application development, JCR and JSR-170 / JSR-283 for Content Management, JSR-168 and JSR-286 for Portal development, and Apache Felix for OSGi bundle development. Proficient in Day CQ foundational concepts, including the CRX repository, the CQ platform, the use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix. Good understanding of Day CQ WCM capabilities including Multi-site manager and Blueprinting, and the use of online marketing components such as advanced targeting / personalization, and multi-variety testing. Proficient knowledge of the end-to-end content lifecycle, web content management, content publishing / deployment, and delivery processes. Good understanding of integration patterns and content-centric application development patterns using Adobe Enterprise Manager 5.6.1. Extensive experience in AEM 5.6.1 technologies ranging from designing and implementation of CQ components, integrating UI and java script frameworks based on need. Good understanding of end-to-end content lifecycle, web content management, content publishing/deployment, and delivery processes Experience working in Agile development environment TECHNICAL SKILLS WCM:  Adobe CQ 5.4/5.5, AEM 5.6.1, AEM-6.X, CQ5 DAM, CQ Tagging Web Technologies:  HTML, CSS, Java Script, Ext-JS, JSP, XML, AJAX, JQuery, Handlebars & LESS Databases:  Oracle database, SQL Server, MySQL Content:  Management Systems CQ 5.5, CQ 5.6, CQ/AEM 6.0, AEM 6.1 Web Development:  XML, HTML, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, JSON, PHP IDE:  Eclipse, NetBeans, CRDXE, CRDXE lite Servers:  Jakarta Tomcat 5.0 Databases:  Oracle 9i, MySQL 5, PL/SQL IDE:  Eclipse 3.0 Build Tools:  Ant, Maven Operating Systems:  MS-DOS, Windows (95/98/2000), Linux Debugging Tools:  Firebug, Firebug Lite, Google Chrome Web Debugger Methodologies:  Agile, Waterfall, TDD PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE AEM Developer Confidential, New York, NY Responsibilities: Extensively involved in best practices for developing highly customizable templates. Track record of delivering scalable performant solutions as well as experience in performance tuning and optimization Broad web and digital knowledge, an aptitude for troubleshooting and problem solving Familiarity with SOAP web services Excellent written and verbal communication skills Ability to establish goals and set clear expectations, prioritize activities, and follow through to completion Identifying and providing recommendations for system process improvements Strong troubleshooting skills in both development/testing environments Assisting on team activities to analyze and improve system performance Experience in Git, JIRA. Developing, implementing and configuring web content management solutions using AEM (Adobe CQ) and technologies such as Java, HTML/DHTML, XML, JavaScript, and web services. Assist clients in achieving strategic objectives through technology solution implementation, taking a technical leadership role in some circumstances. Translating business requirements into technical details. Ensuring quality of code is high for themselves and other team members. Designing reusable CQ5 components for authoring content. QA/Unit testing with team. Being involved to pull up the new stories according to tags, which were created in AEM Tagging Involved in dynamically showing up and sorting out the data Understand the client's technical environment and how they use technology to provide the best, focused advice. Actively participating an agile software development team. Provide input into estimating engagement activities and execute engagements following the Agile methodology. Interact with clients to create end-to-end specifications for content & collaboration solutions. Environment: AEM 6.X, Apache Sling, CRXDE, JSP, Java, J2EE, Apache Maven, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, jQuery, Servlets, JCR Connector, AEM Tagging AEM Developer Confidential, Washington, D.C Responsibilities: Solid experience with CQ5 building blocks including templates, components, dialogs, widgets and DAM workflows. Translating business requirements into technical details relevant to AEM. Creating Multifield components, Migration of the components from one project to other project. Debugging the issues on RTE while using multifield components. Good experience in Sightly scripting language. Integrating Akamai into the AEM instance for caching the customer facing websites. Setting up and configuring AEM Author and Publish instances and ensuring all code works in both environments. Created Component Guide and Training videos for product owners with respective of the website which I created, guiding them about the usage of components for Content authoring Worked on implementing Responsive design on CQ5 platform using frameworks like Twitter Bootstrap and other CSS frameworks. Analyzing security scan report, discussing and fixing the severities in the website with middle ware team before deploying to stage. Created Redirecting service on the basis of run modes for home page in case of emergency. Utilizing HTML, CSS, JQuery and extJS for designing and implementing custom CQ components. Worked on Digital Asset Management, to manage and store all project specific Media (Images, Videos, and Campaign Assets). Making application changes, and resolving incidents and problems according to established policies & procedures. Experienced in building and maintaining web applications using Adobes AEM CMS to include site architecture, custom components, workflow development, Digital Asset Management (DAM) implementation, object model design (Java APIs), implementation, and unit testing. Implementing test cases for reading the data with in AEM and generating a PDF (Ticket), showing up the messages on the PDF depending upon the travel dates and the the train on which passenger is travelling Supporting production environment with resolving application errors including backend. Environment: AEM 6.X, Apache Sling, CRXDE, JSP, Java, J2EE, Apache Maven, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, jQuery, Servlets, JCR Connector. AEM Developer Confidential, Littleton, CO Responsibilities: Designed and Developed, Cq5 building blocks including templates, Components, Dialogs, Widgets, and Workflows. Over 1 year of hands on experience as an Adobe Forms Developer using Adobe Acrobat 7,8,9 & X (10), Adobe LiveCycle ES and Adobe Acrobat. Developed Resource Learning path in Learning Management System by editing environment, preview environment, tag generation environment, with hbs, HTML, CSS, in combination with JavaScript and Jquery. Developed OSGI components and OSGI services. Created components using Sightly HTML. Extensively used HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery and JavaScript to build websites for Century Link’s Small and Large Business Portals. Worked on implementing Responsive design on CQ5 platform using frameworks like Twitter Bootstrap and other CSS frameworks. Therefore, all Sales and SSO related web sites developed in this project are compatible for desktop, mobile, and tablet devices. Expert in configuring author and publish agents. Developing Pages/Templates/Components in Eclipse/CRXDE Lite. Integrating backend jobs with CQ5 for daily Cron jobs. Having experience working with social communities for creating sites, resources, my Assignments and also developed learning path catalog for learning resources. Having experience in connecting SQL database to AEM using enablement database and scorm scripts. AEM design and framework development and Architecture using components widgets, CQ5 bundle, JCR/Sling API, clustering publish and author and editing content with the help of widgets Worked on Digital Asset Management, to manage and store all project specific Media (Images, Videos, and Campaign Assets). Involved in creating Cq: dialog & dialogs for both Touch UI/ Classic UI. Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome. Map existing site pages to CQ5 templates. Understand existing site structure and navigation. Conducted detailed analysis of user requirements and formulated technical requirements. Participated in meetings related to application architecture, designing and development. Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs and Servlets using AJAX and JSON. Performed Unit Testing on developed modules and involved in trouble shooting the components. Proficient in Adobe CQ foundational concepts, including the CRX repository, the CQ platform, the use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix. Analyze functional and business requirements for optimum utilization of CQ5 components and performance. Developed and designed the front end using XML, XSLT, HTML, and CSS. Assisted in functioning of CQ5 solutions by documentation and validation procedures of non-functional requirements. Train business users on how to use CQ5 to modify content and publish. Environment: AEM 6.1,6.0, HTL/Sightly, WCM, Sightly, Java 1.8, J2EE, Servlets, Apache Maven, JavaScript, Apache Sling, CSS, HTML, jQuery, Servlets, REST frameworks, Jackrabbit, JCR Connector.GITLab,Jenkins. object-oriented design methodologies, Acrobat XDP model/ PDFA. AEM Developer Confidential, Plano, TX Responsibilities: Created scaffold for the migration structures (products, timezones, states and countries, etc.). Programmatically created cq pages using the scaffold and the data in site core exported as xml. Users can view the data using the scaffold and update the same Users can create new cq pages using the scaffold Helped to setup an auto-generated mail using html template concept, which sends the requested information upon user request by filling a form GIT is used as a distributed revision control system for code. File vault in conjunction with GIT helps to pull or push the code to developer’s machine from AEM Environment: CQ5.6.1 (WCM), AEM 6.X(HTL/Sightly), Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, JSP, Java, J2EE, Apache Maven, JavaScript, Apache Sling, CSS, HTML, jQuery, Servlets, Jackrabbit, JCR Connector,Adobe LiveCycle Designer/Workbench. AEM Developer Confidential, Indianapolis, IN Responsibilities: Create and maintain customer-facing Adobe CQ5 content management systems. Worked on CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath. Developed custom components, customized forms for Internet and Intranet sites of the company. Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system, Adobe CQ5 Provide estimates, designs, and specifications for CQ5 templates, components, and workflows Built various web pages using HTML, CSS, Java Script and JQuery. Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, CQ5 dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache Worked on CQ5 Forms customization by developing the custom form fields, writing the custom constraints for form fields and specifying the global validation resource type at the form level. Provide author training to business users to familiarize them with the design and usage of the system Environment: Adobe CQ5.5, sCQ5 DAM, CQ Tagging, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Workflow, Scene 7, Java, J2EE, Apache Maven, Confluence, JIRA, Ingestors, Apache HTTP Server, SOAP and REST Web Services, JAXP, JAXB, Axis 2.0, Jersey 1.2, Servlets, JDBC, MS SQL Server, HTML, JSP, TOAD, UML, MS Visio, AJAX, JUnit, log4j, Linux, Windows AEM Developer Confidential, VA Responsibilities: Utilize HTML, CSS, JQuery and extJS for designing and implementing custom CQ components. Involve with content management strategies and architecture and multichannel content delivery. Implemented the Sling Filter, Felix Filter, Sling Servlet, OSGI bundles for interacting with remote spring webapp, web services and custom business logic in java and deploy as jar files from the Felix System Console. Have a completeunderstandingof CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath. Worked on Adobe CQ5 CMS end and developed the custom grid components using ExtJS and integrated them with the insight web. Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments etc. Developed GET/POST sling servlets to provide various services in the CQ system. Implemented restful practices while designing and developing components. Developed workflow components related to digital assets upload workflow (documents and videos) as per the client requirements. Implemented Adobe Experience Manager (AEM/CQ5) Platform including the development of numerous components and integrations. Extensive use of CQ Tag Libraries in the components. Created POC related to CQ5 design and implementation. Assist clients with hotfix, deployment, CQ5 clean upgrade and production issues. Environment: CQ5.5 (WCM), AEM 5.6, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, jQuery, Hg Mercurial, Jackrabbit, JCR Connector, Oracle 11g. AEM Developer Confidential, Dallas, TX Responsibilities: Perform CQ5 customization on foundation components, core CMS and workflows to extend functionalities, improve performance or fix issues on project level. Utilize HTML, CSS, JQuery for designing and implementing custom CQ components. Manage an enterprise CMS system for a multinational entity, implement a governance policy, create users and roles, and build workflows, as well as utilize Digital Asset Management. Implemented the OSGI bundles for interacting with remote spring webapp, web services and custom business logic in java and deploy as jar files from the Felix System Console. Have a completeunderstandingof CRX as a repository and accessing the CRX content nodes by SQL Queries and XPath. Provide author training to business users to familiarize them with the design and usage of the system Worked on Adobe CQ5 CMS end and developed the custom grid components Used GIT to review code and do a continuous integration. Used Subversion for version control across common source code used by developers. Environment: JDK 1.6, MVC, JSON, JQuery 1.7, Adobe CQ5, Apache Sling, CRX, CRXDE, JSP, Apache Tomcat7 Java Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Involved in the process of analysis, design, and development of the application. Used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI. Implemented client side validations using JavaScript. Used Form Based Authentication. Involved in writing stored procedures, complex queries using SQL to process the data on MYSQL. Performed unit testing on various project modules using JUnit framework. Used Apache Ant as build tool. Used IBM Rational Clear Case as version control tool for maintaining source code and project documents. Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking. Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JUnit, Shell, SQL, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, CVS, Linux/UNIX. 