SUMMARY Over 5+ years of IT experience in Web Development with full project lifecycle development: Requirements analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing and Deployment. Expertise in web applications design, analysis, development, Integration, maintenance, interoperability setup & testingof interfaces. Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using jQuery, HTML5, CSS2/3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Node JS, React JS, Backbone JS, AJAX and JSON and experience in making web pages cross browser compatible. Responsible in developing user stories into user interactive web pages. Good knowledge in integrating third party API s JQUERY, Tinymce Library, Data Tables web services using AJAX. Good knowledge in using continuous integration tools Jenkins, web packages Bower, JavaScript task runner Grunt, Module Bundler Webpack. Experience in the use of Defect Tracking & Version Management Tools such as Source tree. Developing data driven dynamic web charts, curves, graphs using D3 Js, C3 Js and CSS animations. Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome. Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Chrome Developer Tools and Firebug. Continuous learning of new Web technologies and gaining hands on experience by developing small applications. Writing unit test cases, execute and generating reports. Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well - documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development. Research-oriented, motivated, proactive, self-starter with strong technical, analytical and interpersonal skills. Hands on Experience in creating templates, adding styles and make the web pages more live and User Interactive. Experience in working with software development methodologies like Agile, Scrum. TECHNICAL SKILLS Project Management Tools: Confluence, GIT Stash, Git Lab, Gilligan, JIRA, Grunt, Webpack, Jenkins, Source Tree Web Technologies: JavaScript, NodeJs, jQuery, Backbone JS, ES6, AngularJS, React Js, Underscore Js, Require JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, SASS, LESS, XML, JSON, D3 Js, C3 Js. Testing Frameworks: Jasmine, Mocha, Selenium, Cucumber IDE & Tools: IntelliJ, Sublime, Eclipse, Balsamiq, Firebug, Chrome Developers Tool, MS Visual Studio, JET Brains WebStorm 8.0.3, Edit plus, Notepad++. Operating Systems: Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7/8, Mac OS X Programming Languages: C, C++, Core Java Miscellaneous: Adobe Photoshop, Word Press PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Austin, Texas UI Developer Responsibilities: Extensively used JavaScript, JQuery, Underscore JS, and Backbone JS to provide rich Interactive User Experience in Application. Responsible in transforming wireframes and mockups to interactive web pages. Writing code that utilizes the latest design patterns and best practices in a test-driven development environment. Used Underscore templates, SASS for dynamic styling to create webpages. Involved in developing skeleton for views, models and writing Utility methods. Involved in developing a simplified and easily understandable application (student test taking software) for a Non- technical person. Created Donut charts, bar graphs using D3 Js, C3 Js. Migrated application build process from task runner Grunt to module bundler Webpack. Written Unit tests to achieve code quality and confidence. Involved in testing and fixing the defects raised in the Developed product. Used HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and Backbone JS for developing the reporting pages. Worked closely with scrum teams to understand the requirements and to resolve the issues. Coordinating in fixing the reported issues found in production. Hands-on experience in using Stash, JIRA, Git, Source tree. Collaborate with UX Designers, BAs, QA engineers, and product owners to develop continuous product enhancements and releases. Responsible for writing Unit test using Chai, Mocha, Selenium for client side code and JUnit tests for play layer code. Code and execute unit test cases and report results. Research new technologies, build prototypes. Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end development for web application that matches requirements of the client. Migrating third-party plugins like Tinymce, Wiris to new versions. Responsible for migrating to new versions of technologies. Handling HTTP requests and sending HTTP responses with Play framework. Environment: HTML5, CSS, SASS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Ajax, Backbone JS, XML, Underscore JS, GIT, Grunt, Bower, Webpack, Source tree, Sublime Text 2.0, Eclipse, IntelliJ. Confidential, LA Programmer Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in a team to create user interface using HTML5, CSS3, and Angular JS framework. Participating in product development discussions and providing UI related information. Experience in releasing enhancements within the specified timeline. Went through user documents and designed user interface designs, Wireframes, Information architecture flows and mockups. Involved in writing Angular code for the front end validation. Developed single page Application with Angular JS. Experience in creating custom Services, Directives. Bootstrap used along with Angular JS in creating the Application. Responsible to develop JSON Object responses. Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Angular JS, Responsive design. Worked on Agile Methodology. Worked on SVN version Control Systems. Created web design solutions in compliance to W3C standards. Involved in Testing and fixing bugs for the designed product. Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end development for web application that matches requirements of the client. Environment: JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Bootstrap, Ajax, JSON, Agile, SVN, IntelliJ Confidential Front End Web Developer Responsibilities: Designed the front-end application using web technologies like HTML4/5, CSS 2/3 and Responsive Web Design. Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON. Participating in product development discussions and providing UI related information. Experience in releasing enhancements within the specified timeline. Used Bootstrap for layout designing. Implemented client side validations using jQuery. Went through user documents and designed user interface designs, Wireframes, Information architecture flows and mockups. Implemented interaction between frontend and backend using the JSON object. Wrote Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer and Firefox. Good knowledge of debugging JavaScript and html code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome JavaScript debugger. Interacted with the clients to gather & analyze business requirements of the various modules of the project. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap, Sublime Text, Eclipse. 