SUMMARY Around 8 Years of experience in Web Application Development & Designing. Expertise in integrated environment for Python, Django, Flask such as Spyder, Atom, PYcharm, IDlE, Anaconda. Vast experience with Python using most of the advanced features of Python including, ORM, Django, Flask, Pyramid, Tornado. Experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts in Python and Java. Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Scypy, Matplotlib, python - twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries) Expertise in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis(OOA) and Programming Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts. Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team. Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, JDBC, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB. Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with DynamoDB. Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library. Used Redis Server for performance optimization and Cost Optimization Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using REST, SOAP, and WSDL. I have a Deep understanding of Micro service based architecture. Knowledge of Information Extraction,NLP algorithmscoupled withDeep Learning(ANNandCNN),Theano,Keras and Tensorflow. Built and trained a deep learning network usingTensorflowon the data Hands on UML compliant high level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer. Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds. Designed data visualization to present current impact and growth. Developed Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning Systems Developed and designed an API (RESTFUL Web Service) for the company’s website. Developed Spark code and Spark-SQL for faster testing and processing of data Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS. Maintained customers relationship management databases (MySQL / PostgreSQL) Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas. Managed companies virtual servers at Amazon EC2, S3 Designed a web based system to improve business intelligence, logistics, manage inventory and sales, and forecast demand TECHNICAL SKILLS Python Django Angular.js Node.js JQuery Vue.js React.js MySQL Java Bootstrap.js HTML PostgreSQL JDBC C C++ AWS Flask Anaconda MongoDB Pandas REST PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Sr. Django Developer Confidential, Nashville, TN Responsibilities: Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. Developed supplier portal using Python andDjangoWeb Framework. Performed EDI integration using Python, Java and C++. Tested the database management software Fast Load, MultiLoad and TPump and FastExport functions in Teradata for integrity and efficiency. Identified the issues in the software and tracked them using JIRA tracking tool. Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website. Designed, configured, and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for applications utilizing the AWSstack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, SQS, IAM), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling Designed and developed data management system using My SQL, Oracle 11g. Developed module for predicting issues/risk which may occur during any enquiry using Tensorflow, So that software will automatically suggest any solution in regards to the problem faced. Rewrite existing Java J2EE modules to Python. Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database. Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript. Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development. Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application. Excellent understand of web applications - UI experience, security, logging, backend services. Solid experience working withDjangoframework. Strong experience developing UI applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery. Created numerousDjangoapps and extensively usedDjangoSession and management. Implemented PEP8 coding standards across all projects. Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Flask, PHP,Django, XML, JSON, CSS, HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular.JS and JQuery. UsingDjango evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modifyDjangomodels while retaining all data, while site was in production mode. Configuring, automation and maintaining build and deployment CI/CD tools Git/GitLab Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on My SQL and Oracle database. Experience with Test Driven Development (TDD) using rspec, factory girl and JUnit Used Redis Server for Website Optimization by frequently suggesting solution for same types of problems. Good experience working on huge database. Expertise in Object-Oriented design, coding and open stack development. Efficient in demonstrating all phases of software development life cycle. Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment. Installed numerous python packages using pip and easy install. Very good understanding of Python requests module and HTTP requests, response, methods. Environment: JIRA, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Python, Django, AWS, GIT, C++, My SQL, Oracle 11g, Java J2EE, JSON, Angular.JS, JQuery, Flask, PHP, TDD. Django Developer Confidential, High Point, NC Responsibilities: Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC. Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package. Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file. Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications. Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data. Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database. Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content. Worked on several python packages Numpy, Scypy, Tensorflow etc. Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RestFul) in Python using XML, JSON. Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, Lambda,S3, DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, Maps Reduce. Implemented Redis server for optimization of performance so that whenever customer searches for problems which are of same type/domain then it generates frequent response for such problems. Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting. Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework. Implemented various micro services Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript (react.js), Angular4.JS and JQuery. Security, Route 53, Direct Connect, IAM, Cloud Formation, AWS OpsWorks (Automate operations), Elastic Beanstalk, AWS S3, Glacier and Cloud Watch Monitoring Management. Worked with search business and search team to implement dynamic rule updates to search using ElasticSearch. Analysis the logs data and filter required columns by logstash configuration and send it to ElasticSearch. Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface using react.js. Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing. Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic. Working on Java/J2EE framework APIs like spring, IBatis and Hibernate. Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing. Implemented system logging solution using Logstash, ElasticSearch and Kibana. Implemented CI/CD process, CIT automated testing, deployment using Hg/GIT, REST API, grble & Puppet. Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this. Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views Configuring, automation and maintaining build and deployment CI/CD tools Git/GitLab, Docker. Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval. Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, React.JS, JQuery, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Java, ElasticSearch, Oracle, DynamoDB, Vagrant, PL/SQL, MS-Sql, JDBC, S3, Maven, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Git, GitHub, Linux. Python Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdB package to retrieve information. Created data access modules in python. Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data. Worked on development of backend services using Python, SQL and Linux. Created many API's for Iscrum project which involves creating and maintaining projects in an organization and developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL. Involved in developing a video calling application using python web-sockets. Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency. Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS. Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation. Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side. Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages. Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment. Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, JQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools. Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, AngularJS, JQuery and REST Services. Hosted GPU based Apache spark jobs using Scala for faster data processing and used spark SQL for querying. Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework. Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other JavaScript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications. Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model. Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server. Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer. Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL. Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. 