SUMMARY I have over 8+ years of professional experience in application design, analysis, development, integration, debugging, implementation and testing of various client/server N - tier web application using multiple UI-Technologies and software development methodologies. Extensive experience in building application with React JS, Redux; Require JS, in MVC architecture. Excellent knowledge of JavaScript, CSS3/CSS, HTML5/HTML, Bootstrap, TypeScript and their behavior on different browsers. Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA. Expertise in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept. Hands on knowledge of JavaScript MVC frameworks such as BackboneJS, AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, Require JS. Worked on Agile methodology and having experience working in a fast-paced Scrum environment. Strong understanding of SASS and LESS as CSS preprocessors. Worked on Angular with TypeScript and other latest client-side technologies including ReactJS, ES6, Gulp, NodeJS, RxJS, Angular CLI, Webpack, Karma and Jasmine. Experience in using Typescript which is the Node JS, AngularJS main Codebase. Involved in the Software Life Cycle phases like AGILE and estimating the timelines for projects. Good Experience on MVC frameworks like Angular JS for creating Single Page Application (SPA) and Two-Way Binding using concepts like Routing, Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scopes, Controllers and Directives. Expert in implementing Controllers, Modules, Services, Factories, Module Optimization, HTTP Caching and Angular UI for Bootstrap in AngularJS. Expertise developing Responsive web design (RWD) application with client scripting language and serve scripting languages like Node.js, Express.js, React.js. Experience in integrating RESTFUL APIs and web services with applications. Developed event-driven application using form-based authentication using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX request, JSON, and XML. Skilled in using angular service like HTTP to GET/POST integration with Java based backend. Proficient in developing Web Services, related technologies & frameworks like WSDL, SOAP, REST, AXIS and Jersey, SOAP UI. Worked on developing CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, ReactJS and NodeJS) and REST based API. Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, Wire-framing, Bootstrap. Experience in using GULP, GRUNT for minifying of libraries and stylesheets, running unit test. Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance and extensive experience with Agile, SCRUM, Waterfall, Kanban. Expertise in UI designing like wireframe concepts, Mockup designs using Adobe Fireworks, Azure, Photoshop. Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test-Driven Development (TDD). Extensively used build utilities like MAVEN, ANT for building of jar and war files. Experience in developing and implementing SOAP and RESTful Web Services using different Frameworks and connecting to Database. Experience in the use of various relational databases like Oracle, DB2, SQL Server and NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra. Extensively used build utilities like MAVEN, ANT for building of jar, war and ear files. Excellent analytical, problem solving and presentation skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages:  JAVA, J2EE, ASP.Net, C#, Swift-iOS, Python Web Technologies:  HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, TOAD, Jasmine, Karma, Jest, Chai, Mocha concept Modeling/ Wire framing, Responsive Web Design. JavaScript Libraries:  React.js, Ext.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Ploymer.js, Require.js, Node.js, Ember.js, Redux, D3.js, ES5 and ES6. Web Services:  REST, SOAP, XML, HTTP Web Server, Apache Tomcat, Web logic. Databases:  Oracle, SQL Server, My SQL server, No SQL MongoDB IDE & Tools:  Eclipse, Photoshop, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Visual studio Code Agile, Waterfall, TDD, Rational Unified Process:  Methodologies Version Control:  Confidential, SVN, Git Hub, Bitbucket Operating System:  Windows /XP/Vista, MAC OS X PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Chicago, IL Sr. React Developer Responsibilities: Worked in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, Bootstrap, and React.JS. Involved in designing in web pages using HTML 5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, React.js, Redux, React-Bootstrap, Node.js, express.js, Mongo DB. Worked in designing the CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSSBackground, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table. Skilled in leading frameworks as React.js to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front-end solution. Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux/Redux for SPA development. Used React JS to create custom components for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format. Designed the Front-end applications, And Mobile Application As well for user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Es6 JavaScript, React JS and React-Native/Redux Saga. Worked as a Front EndDeveloper on the project with Javascript, ES6, React, Redux Saga, RESTful services, HTML5/CSS3/SASS/Bootstrap and Gitlab. Debugging applications in different browsers using Firebug, and testing applications using QUnit, Jasmine karma and Mocha. Performed Unit testing on applications using tools like chai, mocha, and enzyme within Test-Driven Development (TDD). Created Unit tests using Mocha, Sinon, Chai and Enzyme. Knowledge on unit testing and integration testing frameworks and libraries like Mocha and Chai. Involved in unit testing of various modules by generating the test cases using Jasmine, Mocha, Enzyme, Chai, Jest and Karma. Developed the unit testing scripts using JEST for testing the React components using Enzyme and react test renderer. Used JIRA for Bug Tracking and JSLint for ensuring quality code. Involved in unit testing of various modules by generating the test cases using Jest & Enzyme. Created unit tests using Enzyme, Mocha, Shallow. Implemented Hibernate for the ORM layer in transacting with Oracle database Implemented back-end Web API with the use of MongoDB, ExpressJS, and NodeJS and established connectivity with the use of Axios. Achieved APIs calls from back end NodeJS using React axios. Working with Axios Library to fetch data from network request Elegantly used React-Router techniques Axios service to retrieve data from server synchronously in the background without interfering with the display and existing page in an interactive way. Developed the presentation layer (UI) using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, Flash, CSS and client validations using JavaScript. Developed applications using Velocity framework, JSP, JSTL, struts tag libraries (struts-bean, struts-html, struts-logic), CSS, spring framework, java, java script, Ajax, HTML and DHTML for front-end development. Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS. Responsible for front end development using React, Mobx, CSS, Ant design and various node modules. Strong focus on React-Native, React, Electron, iOS, ES6, CSS, MobX, Webpack, and Node.js Evaluated and extensively tested React, ExtReact, Redux and MobX. Developing Single Pages Application using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, ReactJS, Nextjs, GraphQl, Expressjs, NodeJS, Socket, LESS. Developed an internal application using ReactJS, Nextjs, Express and NodeJS for Relationship Mangers. Created web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JSPs, JQuery, Handlebars, Lodash, SASS and Angular JS for developing user interface. Designed User Interfaces using JSP, jQuery, CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, NodeJS, and Lodash for front end view as per the requirements that are provided. Added new features using React/Redux(RXJS)/Lodash for functionality of few modules. Used third party packages for Angular application. This increases the performance and efficiency of the application. Some of them are Lodash, ngrx (redux architecture for state management). Implemented React-Router, React Redux architecture, ES6, web pack and Grunt to turn application into Single Page Application. Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using ES6. Worked on Angular with TypeScript and other latest client-side technologies including ReactJS, ES6, Gulp, NodeJS, RxJS, Angular CLI, Webpack, Karma and Jasmine. Used ES6, JSX with react for component development make react look more elegant Used Babel.js to transpile ES6 and JSX into JavaScript Very Strong in developing applications using Angular JS, HTML5, Bootstrap, Java Script, CSS3. Used Sencha Touch and EXT JS for the Mobile web interface development. Also used JSON and JQuery for Mobile application development .Worked with HTML 5 and CSS 3. Used Node.JS, React.JS, and Backbone.JS MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application (SPA). Designed a web application for both the company user and customer user with different Login and Sign-up authorization using firebase authentication. Built web application using Vue.js and Firebase. Developed robust form management system with complete CRUD capabilities in React Native, Redux, and Firebase. Mobile app written in React Native with a firebase backend currently live in the app store. Developed Java Script utility objects for common client side validations, history handling, window management and menus management Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend. Designed and implemented user interface for web-based customer application using HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, JSON, AJAX and Angular. Used Webpack, Babel and gulp for transpilation (compilation) configuration for Typescript to be converted to JavaScript. Developed single page applications using Angular, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap. Developed SPA project using Angular Typescript for frontend, Node JS and Postgres for backend. Working with React Router for developing Single Page Applications SPAs. Using lifecycle methods and React Router. Implemented web page using the semantic markup and page layout of HTML5 and implemented the new CSS3 border-radius property for the design layout and CSS3 transitions to change property values over a given duration. Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5semantics new tags like audio, video, canvas) CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON. Implemented unit and integration testing for all layers of the applications using frameworks like JUnit, Spock, Mocha, Jasmine. Developed Oracle PL/SQLStored Procedures and Queries for Payment release process and authorization process. Database managemen (MySQL, PostgreSQL), project management and product development (Github, Trello, Agile Project Management/Scrum). Experience in writing Automation code with FitNesse,Protractor. Implemented Backbone CRUD operations (Create, Read, Update and Delete) and Paginator for pagination for Tables. Implemented Redux Saga's with actions and reducers to implement a sync API calls. Made use of redux saga middleware to access redux application state and dispatched redux actions. Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating Angular JS with Bootstrap and LESS CSS which is further integrated with Web Services. Designed layouts on the front-end and developed web pages responsive for smart phones, tablets and Personal desktops using HTML5, CSS3,Bootstrap, jQuery, ReactJS, Redux & JavaScript Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery. Enhanced the React environment with Redux, React-router and Redux-thunk. Used Redux-Thunk as middleware to manipulate the data type and handle multiple actions. Revamping and rewriting front-end using preact js, redux, saga, webpack. Developed user interface by using theReactJS, Flux for SPA development. Developed presentation layer using XML, XSL, JavaScript, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Custom tags etc. Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex. Used GIT as Version Control and iText to generate pdf in the form of a tree. Done unit testing using Test NG. Used GIT as version management, JIRA for defect management system. Worked closely with the User Experience (UX) team in determining the Content and Wireframes Developed the Cross- browser compatible and standard compliant applications Developed application using NodeJS for Asynchronous Module Definition (AMD) and Grunt as task manager. Developed the application using Eclipse IDE and worked under Agile Environment. Designed, implemented and deployed the EJB entity and session beans in the Weblogic application server. Entity beans form the core part of the business logic. Used WebPack, Babel and gulp for transpilation(compilation) configuration for Typescript to be converted to JavaScript. Worked with React-router, JSX, Babel, and React bootstrap. Used WebPack, Babel and gulp for transpilation(compilation) configuration for Typescript to be converted to JavaScript. Webpack plugin to perform various tasks that build our application. Utilized JSLint to maintain consistent style amongst all the developers and Used GIT for version control. Bugzilla was used to report and track bugs, JSLint for ensuring quality code. Worked with J2EE packages such as DI, EJB, JPA,JDBS, JNDI, JMS and Restful web services Implemented the multi datacenter cluster consisting ofCassandrarings. Environment: Reactjs, Redux, React Router,Semantic UI, Saga, Thunk, React Bootstrap, Axios, flux, mobx, nextjs, sass,less, Lodash, JavaScript, ES6, Flow, typescript, Firebase, Mocha, Chai,, Enzyme, Jest,babel,webpack,jslint, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, React.js, Node.js, REST, Protractor, Jasmine, Agile, MAVEN, Eclipse, Weblogic, Git, GitHub, Oracle, PL/SQL, JDBC, Cassandra. Confidential, Boston MA Sr. React Developer Responsibilities: Extensively used Reactjs, D3.Js, under score.js, Node JS and lodash.js for JavaScript object and array manipulations. Solved Callback hells in Node.JS by using Promises and Generators from ES6 resulting in unchaining of events and making the code efficient. Implemented JavaScript source code and embedded nested handling logic using jQuery event handlers and call back functions, es6. Developed a bulletin board module for supplier and vendor information portal. Application included forms to upload notification documents to the Supplier bulletin and maintenance of documents, complete with CRUD capabilities and email notifications. Used Saga Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End. Worked on Redux for state manipulations and Redux Saga to implement API requests asynchronously. Used Middleware, Redux-Saga in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services. Designed and implemented server-side RESTful web services using Node JS and handled communications to the client side (React JS) using JSON. Researched future web technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, and Backbone.js etc. to develop new web applications. Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience. Involving all the stages of Software Development Life Cycle like Application Design, Development, Debugging and testing the applications. Was extensively involved in AB testing. Developed and tested AB features using Optimize tool. Developed static and dynamic Web Pages using JSP, HTML and CSS. Extensively used Redux Sagas to manage side effects in React and Redux. Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions in Oracle 10g to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and also established data integrity among all tables. Used Redux Thunk Middleware, in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services. Introduced redux-thunk and Immutable.js as additional libraries to support ReactJs application. Worked with Axios and Lodash libraries for Ajax calls and utility functions respectively. Involved in processing JSON data from RESTful web service by using Axios to get resources from the database and populated data on the UI and used Redux-Saga as middleware. Used Axios to fetch the data by consuming the Rest API. Implemented a POC to pick a state management tool between Redux and MobX. Used ReactJs and MobX for front end development. Used NextJs for server-side rendering for better performance and for SEO. Developed UI using ReactJs and Redux and NextJS. Worked with Lodash libraries for Ajax calls and utility functions respectively. Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features using Express JS, Node JS and Firebase. Firebase was used as back-end database to save the data. Developed Angular modules, routers and services using typescript. Implemented mock backend, in Angular JS using Typescript for testing purposes. Implement new Front-End features with Typescript/ JavaScript and other RESTful APIs. Used React Router Redux to store the route parameters in the redux store. Utilized Bootstrap and to develop a reactive website from a static JavaScript, Node JS, Bootstrap, Semantic UI,RESTful API, jQuery existing code base. Developed semantic markups and Wireframe development. Developed portions of HTML5-based game for use in an online gambling promotion. To manipulate the data type and handle multiple actions, uses Redux-Thunk as middleware. The Redux-Thunk middleware was used with the Redux store to retrieve contract data via a RESTful API implemented on the backend in Node.js and MongoDB. All development was done on MacOS and the source code was managed via GIT. Used EcmaScript, ReactJS, Flux, Babel, Node and Web-Pack to create a SPA. Used Babel, web pack and react JSX presets. Used webpack to make the development environment better. Used Node.js to run Webpack tasks and build properly the project. Worked with Grunt and used plugins - uglify, concat, replace, eslint, jslint, sprite. worked with regression testing using Jslint and Selenium. Designing, Coding (development) and Debugging application using Eclipse Indigo as an IDE, Spring JDBC framework and DAO pattern, HTML5, CSS3, and JQuery. Used AngularJS Dependency Injection (DI) to inject Angular Services and Custom Services, as well as built custom Directives to provide reusable component. Developed forms using HTML and performing client side validations using Java Script. Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application. Good knowledge in TwitterBootstrapand Responsive Design. ConfigureMONGODBSharded cluster with Replica Set (HA) on Different AWS regions. Developed various reusable helper and utility classes using Java Beans with Eclipse editor. Designed, developed and tested the Websphere Portal Application based on Model, View, Controller (MVC) architecture deployed on Confidential Web Sphere Portal /Application Server. Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS. Created Single Page Application for Service module by using AngularJSUI-Router to configure routes for navigating between different HTML pages and integrating backend using JavaScript framework. Used Angular as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA), which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server. Developed test cases and performed unit testing usingJUnit. Have broken down the application into multiple angular modules for simplicity purposes and have done unit tests usingJasmine. Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence. Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from Confidential DB2 Implemented Java Script validation frame work for client side & server side. UsedReactflux to polish the data and for single directional flow. Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Macromedia/Adobe Flex. Development Tools: Eclipse,WSAD, RAD, Ant, And Maven, Frameworks: Struts, Hibernate. Conducted software builds using Subversion in a windows environment via Cruise Control. Environment: Reactjs, Redux, React Router,Semantic UI, Saga, Thunk, Bootstrap, Axios, Flux, mobx, nextjs, sass, less, Lodash, JavaScript, ES6 Flow, typescript,, Firebase, Mocha, Chai, Enzyme, Jest,babel, webpack, jslint, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Node.js, Angular.js, bootstrap.js, JQuery, Spring, Hibernate, Websphere portal, Websphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD), Subversion (SVN), DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, MongoDB, Junit, Jasmine, scrum, UML, MAVEN, JIRA,, soap, web services, Eclipse. Confidential, Seattle WA React Developer Responsibilities: Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience. Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT. Developed J2EE components using Netbeans as IDE. Developed ANT scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server. Work with continuous integration and version control via git,mercurial, and Jenkins Implemented Selenium IDE with java script for Web apps. Designed Use Cases using UML and managed the entire functional requirements life cycle using water fall model. Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic. Developed server-side services using JSF, Apache Trinidad components, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Web Services Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment. Developed Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI) for exchanging the data following SOA architecture principles. Developed complex Web basedUIusing Struts, Ajax and Java Script. Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO. Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate. Implemented View layer of MVC architecture using JSF components. Developed the user interface screens using Swing for accepting various system inputs such as contractual terms, monthly data pertaining to production, inventory and transportation. Implemented complex Row Level Security in the FM and Implemented Cognos Security folders, user groups and roles. Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle. EstablishedANTand scripts for build activities MAVENinQA, Staging and Production environments. Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application. Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework. Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in Web Sphere server. Developed order receipt report with bar code using lowage iText and jasper report. Defined as-is-architecture, transitional architecture, and recommended future-state architecture related to Search technologies including Google GSA, Endeca, and EMC Documentum ECI. Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit. Analyzed and resolved production system problems tracked with Rational ClearQuest and JIRA Environment: HTML, CSS, Spring, IBatis, Struts, JQuery, AJAX, DOJO, Ext.JS, JSF, EJB, MYSQL, Toad, SQL server, DB2, Coherence, APACHE AXIS2, WSDL, Netbeans, Jboss, Mercurial, Clearcase, Salenium, SERVLET, ANT, Xml, ITEXT, SWING, Cognos, Jasper Report, UML, JSP. Confidential, Austin TX Software Developer Responsibilities: Worked as a UI Developer, assisting my team in Designing and developing UI for an internal Web-based application. Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML. Used JavaScript, AJAX, XML, HTML and CSS for developing the Web component of apps. Worked with clients to develop layout, color scheme for their website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS and JavaScript. Created webpages according to client's guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript. Worked on Karma-Jasmine and mocha for unit test cases and used protractor for end to end test cases. Responsible to Cache synchronization using Java Messaging Service (JMS) Developed webpages that included jQuery, JavaScript and AJAX. Designed table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards. Extensively used CSS to change the styles to be used in future web layouts and debugging the errors issues with CSS. Designed web pages using XHTML and CSS. Implemented functionality in JavaScript. Built CSS and JavaScript system for controlling text display issues cross-platform and cross browse Used JQuery to make the HTML, CSS interact with JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web page. Used Angular.js to structure Javascript code in an MVC (Model, View, Controller). Responsible to write unit test cases using JUnit and Mockito Responsible for closing the backlog of production related issues within SLA. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, backbone.js, Node.js, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Drupal, AJAX, GIT, ANT, Jasmine, karma, MySQL. Confidential, Atlanta, GA Software Developer Responsibilities: Designed and developed user friendly interface by using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery Designed flash plugins for including different functionalities and content. Worked on integrating jQuery APIs with MVC pattern. Used AJAX frameworks like jQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and involved in performance tuning the website. Involved in bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and jQuery. Involved in debugging HTML, CSS and JS code using tools such as Chrome Inspector, and Firefox Firebug. Reviewed the code for ensuring adherence to Java coding standards. Developing XML classes for loading the data from XML files deployed at the server. Worked with Jasmine in testing and performed Unit testing and execution testing utilizing JUNIT. Developed UI pages using media queries and made completely responsive. Reviewed the code foe ensuring adherence to Java coding standards. Worked with the team of architects and back-end developers to gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features. Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens and used DHTML to make drop-down menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, Jasmine, Grunt, Unit testing, GIT, JUnit, XML, MVC Framework, Apache Tomcat, SQL, MySQL. Confidential, Palo Alto, CA Software Developer Responsibilities: Involved on learning about the business and quality analysis of products with the detail on Software Engineering processes. Developed UI web design using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML. Front end was designed and developed using various HTML and CSS components such as Buttons, Web Forms, Panels, Scrollbars, layouts and stylesheets with font styles and animations. Designed the layout of the front end of the web application on E-learning of Software testing. Coded Software Modules in Java implementing OOPS Concepts such as Inheritance, Abstraction and Polymorphism on the Eclipse IDE. Worked on web services response by data transfer using XML and Wampserver. Wrote the specifications of the application using UML and integrated the user modules to a single page application. Worked on following each phase of the Waterfall method of Software Engineering in Application Development. Involved from Development Plan, Designing till testing of each modules, integration and deployment of each software application. Environment: HTML, CSSJavaScript, HTML, CSS, Waterfall, XML, eclipse, UML, SOAP, MVC Framework, JQuery, Struts, JavaScript, J2EE, JSP, SQL, MySQL, Oracle. 