SUMMARY Over 5 Years of experience in java development, encompassing analysis, design, development, deployment and execution of business applications. Extensive experience with java using html5, CSS framework, Java script, AngularJS, RequiredJS, Jquery. Strong Knowledge of Object Oriented Programming (OOP). Extensive experience in developing and consuming Web services and Restful services. Expertise in JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS. Experience in developing applications using: C#, .NET, Microsoft SQL Server R2, Ext.NET framework Expertise in designing various Reports using Crystal reports with various data sources. Experience in architectural style like 3 - tier, n-tier, MVC. Strong control over designing and developing backend functionalities in SQL Server with various SQL database objects like views, query, stored procedures, indexes, functions, and triggers. Well Experienced in Business Use-Case Analysis, gathering functional requirement, Developing specifications, business models, and UML Diagrams (Structure and Behavior). Expertise in Object Oriented Programming (OOP), Analysis (OOA) and Design (OOD). Complete Business analysis and Project Management using Agile / Scrum Project Management like Product Backlog (User Story), Continuous Integration (CI), Sprint Meetings, User training and Go Live and post implementation support. Has extensive knowledge and hands on experience in handling all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Experience working with GIT, JIRA, Bit Bucket with Bamboo and TFS 2013/2012 server, performing check-in, check-out, branching, labelling, merging, etc., Experience in implementing error handling, exception management, tracing and logging features. Good experience in training and educating end users with well document presentations. Excellent communication skills when working with team members and can easily interact with teh end users. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages:  JAVA, J2EE, C#, ASP.NET.NET, .Net Framework  2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5 , AJAX Databases:  Microsoft SQL Server /2014, MySQL Reporting:  RDLC. Web:  HTML5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, Responsive Web Design. JS Library:  JQuery, Angular JS, Angular 2, Require JS Version Management:  Team Foundation Server (TFS). GIT, GITHUB, GITLAB Project Management:  Project Open, JIRA, Metrica PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Software Programmer Confidential, Dallas, Texas Responsibilities: Meet with teh Subject Matter Experts and discuss teh business process, understand teh system to extract teh data from teh system. Prepare and review software design documents. Identify alternative solutions and evaluate operational procedures, Work as a solution provider and build up solution architecture fulfilling organizational needs, Identifying technology limitations and deficiencies in existing systems and methods, Write re-factor and improve existing design and software program codes, Write unit test cases and conduct unit testing, Design user interfaces, write and execute application source codes. Cloud based data adapter service development to request and update data between different applications dis Adapter services used to pull data from Five9 Call center applications and then process and update WFM system through web services. their were two different application one was for historical data processing which runs at midnight to process all Historical Records and teh other one runs on real time. Teh system had some configurations options and like scheduling, failover management, exception handling, and log file generation. Teh system is hosted on Amazon Cloud server Environment: Windows service application developed by .Net Framework (C#), SOAP API Integration, XML Confidential Responsibilities: Web based insurance claims and adjustment management application. Can handle insurance company information and all of their Agent records. Teh system can process end user’s insurance claims and different kind of approval layers TEMPHas integration with billing and payment processing systems. Dashboard for Claim monitoring and assigning to teh agents. Analytical reporting. Environment: WEB Application using Java J2EE, html5, CSS framework, JQuery, AngularJS Assistant Software Programmer Confidential Responsibilities: Users’ new requirements analysis and existing system analysis. Prepare and review Software Design documents. Identify alternative solutions and Evaluate Operational Procedures. Design User interfaces, write and execute application source codes. Write re-factor and improve existing design and software program codes, Write unit test cases and conduct unit testing, Design user interfaces, write and execute application source codes. Extract, Evaluate and Migrate information gatheird from multiple sources/applications Check correctness and integrity of data and generate appropriate information/ report. Identify error and data problem and troubleshoot to solve teh problem. Design User interfaces, write and execute application source codes System development/ coding, code review Check correctness and integrity of data and generate appropriate information/ report Identify Designed and developed a web based application for Banking purpose. Users’ new requirements analysis and existing system analysis Prepare and review Software Design documents. Identify alternative solutions and Evaluate operational Procedures. error and data problem and troubleshoot to solve teh problem Environment: WEB Application using Java J2EE, html5, CSS framework, JQuery, AngularJS Confidential Responsibilities: Confidential is a Bidders data management system build Confidential in Bangladesh. dis system allows to create, maintain and evaluate different kinds of bids Roads and Highways plan throughout teh year. In dis project I was responsible for Preparing SRS, Design Document and Identifying alternative solutions. Worked as a team member and was responsible for coding and integration Unit Testing and Debugging. Environment: WEB Application using Java J2EE, html5, CSS framework, JQuery, AngularJS, Required JS 