SUMMARY 8+ Years of Professional experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Applications Design, Development, Installation, Implementation, Integration, Maintenance, Testing and Debugging of various web applications. Exposure to Waterfall and Agile Methodologies. Sound Understanding and good Experience wif Model View Control (MVC) design pattern, Test Driven Development (TDD) and Acceptance Test Driven Development (ATDD). Experience in developing user interfaces for CRUD and SPA web applications using HTML5, CSS3, CSS Flexbox layout, JavaScript, Typescript, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, PrimeNG, AngularJS, Angular 2, Angular 4, Angular 5, Angular 6, JSON - Logic-JS, Node.js, React JS. Experience in developing web applications using CSS media queries, SASS, LESS and Responsive Web Design (RWD) making the web pages fluid across multiple devices. Excellent working noledge and thorough exposure on Cross browser compatibility issues wif different versions of browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome. Expert in using various grids like Bootstrap grid, PrimeNG for populating the data, using of D3.JS for Data Visualization. Performed Unit testing on Angular applications using frameworks like MochaJS, ChaiJS, SinonJS, Jasmine, Karma, and End-to-end testing using Protractor, Selenium. Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug and Developer Tools. Expertise in version control tools like GIT, SVN, and CVS to manage and control software development. Experience wif CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) methodologies using Maven and Jenkins. Worked proficiently in various tools and IDEs for development and design like Visual Studio Code, WebStorm, Brackets, Sublime text, Eclipse, and MY Eclipse. Ability to effectively communicate conceptual ideas, translate business requirements into interactive web applications. Excellent skills in relationship management wif clients and effective in guiding team during the project development life cycle and deliver the product wifin time, cost and quality. Ability to write clear, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development. Quick learner and proficient in solving the technical issues in the project. TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies: HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, Typescript, JQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON, Bootstrap, NPM, Yarn, AngularJS 1.4, Angular 2.x, Angular 4.x, Angular 5.x, Angular 6.x, Angular 7.x, NGRX, JSON-Logic-JS, React JS, RWD, D3.JS, and Node.js. Testing/CLI Frameworks: Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, MochaJS, ChaiJS, SinonJS, Angular CLI Debugging Tools: Chrome Dev. Tools, Firebug Developer Tools (IDE): IntelliJ, VS Code, WebStorm, Sublime Text 3, Eclipse Source Control Tools: SVN, GIT, Bitbucket Operating Systems: Windows XP/7/8/10, Mac OS X, Linux Ubuntu Other: Version one, Jira, Bamboo, Jenkins PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Atlanta, GA Sr. UI Developer Responsibilities: Working in Agile based development environment and participated in daily SCRUM stand-up meetings. Involved in requirement gathering, designing, development, UI code reviews, and maintenance. Developed Web Applications using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Object Oriented JavaScript, Typescript, Angular 5.x, Angular 6.x, Angular 7.x, Node.js, MongoDB, Spring Boot, Bootstrap, and PrimeNG. Created unit test cases for all components, services and directives in Jasmine framework. Integrated ng-bullet to reduce the unit test cases execution time. Created JSNLog logs in the required classes to log the client side events, errors, timeouts to server. Migrated application from Angular 5 to Angular 6 and Angular 6 to Angular 7. Upgraded RxJS 5 to RxJS 6 as part of the migration and made required code refactoring. Implemented PrimeNG Toast component in the application to display messages in overlay and PrimeNG Table component to display the data in proper format wif features like select all checkbox, filters for each column, and pagination. Integrated Angular-SVG-Icon to get the SVG file from backend and utilize it. Created a header checkbox component to enhance the existing behavior of the PrimeNG table component. Involved in integration of the UI unit test cases in bamboo CICD pipeline. Implemented Observables for continuous stream of response from a http call, used subscribe, map, subject operators from RxJS. Created the NGRX data flow by building the store, dispatching the actions, maintaining the store using Reducer and accessing the API Services using Effects. Moved the subjects in service to NGRX store and refactored all the subject subscription in components to store subscriptions. Implemented responsiveness using Bootstrap to support compatibility across different platforms and screen sizes. Working wif source version control tool Bitbucketto manage the code base and followed proper patterns like forking for cleaner commits to the repos. Used dependency management tools such as NPM and Yarn. Created reusable web components as part of open source framework (nimbus-core). Handled all aspects of the web applications including developing, testing, and debugging. Involved in peer code reviews and QA of work in progress, ensuring the team to maintain a standardized best practice of development. Translating the business requirements into technical requirements. UsedJira to maintain user stories and tasks in the project. Environment: HTML4/5, CSS3/4, SASS, BOOTSTRAP, PRIMENG, NG-BULLET, JAVASCRIPT, TYPESCRIPT, BAMBOO, ANGULAR 5.X, ANGULAR 6.X, NODE.JS, NPM, YARN, ANGULAR CLI, JSON, JASMINE, KARMA, BITBUCKET, JIRA. Confidential, McLean, VA. Sr. UI Developer Responsibilities: Extensively followed Agile Methodology and Scrum process for Software development. Developed user interface of Customer Facing Web application using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, TypeScript, and Angular 4.x as per client requirements. Implemented RxJS Subjects and Observable streams containing data. Created Custom web components like flyout, and onload placeholders. Used GIT as version control system to maintain and organize the code base. Implemented centralized Notifications module wif pagination logic, filtering and sorting to display the notifications data. Performed code review and improved code quality of the project. Refactored code to make it readable, clean, maintainable, reusable and followed naming conventions. Created unit test cases for Typescript classes in Jasmine framework. Implemented Angular2-Moment for custom date formats and to achieve all web browsers compatibility. Created Documentation of all methods in components and directives. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, JAVASCRIPT, TYPESCRIPT, ANGULAR 4.X, NODE.JS, ANGULAR CLI, JSON, JASMINE, KARMA, GIT, VERSIONONE. Confidential, Plano, TX Sr. UI Developer Responsibilities: Participating in daily SCRUM stand-up meeting and provided Demos to the product owners. Working in Agile based development environment and participated in SCRUM sessions. Developing user interface of Web application using HTML5, SASS, JavaScript, TypeScript, AngularJS and Angular 2.x, Angular 4.x as per client requirements. Gathered requirements from users and designed the prototypes in Balsamiq Mockups. Implemented Angular-Redux (@ngrx) for state management of application. Used RxJs heavily for subscribing to Observable streams containing data. Created enhancements by developing front end for 5 gates (Version Control, Branching Strategy, Code Coverage, Automated Build, and Static Analysis) in CICD 16 gates (Maturity Score) in Hygieia dashboard using JSON-Logic-JS framework. Worked wif UX designers to implement details of the design using Typescript, SASS, HTML5, AngularJS, Angular 2, and Angular 4. Optimized UI for multiple platforms and devices and converted UI to responsive where applicable and working experience in responsive design utilizing cross browser compatible CSS. Wrote Unit test cases for the Typescript classes in Jasmine framework. Produced UI and visual solutions, created UX flows, built wireframes, and wrote specifications for developers. Used Webpack to bundle JavaScript and Typescript modules. Implemented Flexbox layout to obtain Responsive Web Design (RWD). Created Custom directives and filters in Angular. Implemented custom validation controls for various forms through Angular custom validation controls. Created wireframes, storyboards, user flows, and documentation and site maps to effectively communicate design ideas. Uses multiple UI/UX tools and software to complete tasks. Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing Angular 4 created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database. Utilized GIT as version control system. Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete). UsedVersion One to maintain user stories and tasks in the project. Environment: HTML4/5, CSS3/4, SASS, BOOTSTRAP, JAVASCRIPT, TYPESCRIPT, AWS, ANGULARJS 1.X, ANGULAR 2.X, ANGULAR 4.X, NODE.JS, BACKBONE.JS, REQUIRE.JS, ANGULAR CLI, JSON, JSON-LOGIC-JS, SELENIUM, BOWER, JASMINE, KARMA, GIT, VERSIONONE. Confidential, Richmond, VA. Sr.UI Developer Responsibilities: Extensivelyinvolved in requirements gathering and analyzing them, checking the dependencies and design of the project. Daily SCRUM stand-up meeting and provided Demos to the business. Used custom web components wif Angular JS for effective design of Web pages. Collaborated wif Confidential internal communities and contributed in creating web components like header, footer, modal, etc. along wif their consumption in AngularJS using angular services and emitters. Worked wif creating scaffolding, linting, testing and deployment of Angular applications wif Angular CLI. Developed an API (interface layer) between front-end and private API. Worked in Agile based development environment and participated in SCRUM sessions. Responsible for the design of application right from the conceptualization stage. Used SASS the CSS preprocessor making using of mixins, nesting etc. Implemented client side validations over the forms usingAngularJS. Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using AngularJS. Used NPM (Node Package Manager), Node JS and Bower for dependency management. Worked wif Chai.JS, MochaJS and Sinon.JS for unit testing the code. Used Webpack for code bundling and babel as compiler for transpiling JS files in unsupported browsers. Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating AngularJS wif Bootstrap which is further integrated wif Web Services. Wrote code for http calls to REST APIs to fetch the data from the backend as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation. Worked wif D3.js in the editorial and layout staff by creating represent able pictograms, maps, pie charts and more to illustrate key facts and trends in news stories. Ability to write clean, readable bug free and production grade code. Performed code reviews contributing to higher code quality and best practices wifin the team. Developed the consumption model of custom web components for projects using Webpack and SystemJS. Used Git as Version Control System. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULARJS 1.4, NODE.JS, D3.JS, AWS, SASS, BOOTSTRAP, DOM, JSON, AJAX, BOWER, MOCHA JS, CHAI JS, SINON JS, JASMINE, SPRING-BOOT, GIT, VERSIONONE. Confidential, Sterling, VA Sr.UI Developer Responsibilities: Used agile methodology for the software development. Active participation throughout the entire software development lifecycle from project inception, to code development and elaborate testing of the various modules. Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups. Designed and Developed dynamic UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and AngularJS. Used Angular JS to create a single page web application wif efficient data flow between the client and server. Created web pages which are informative and yet very neat and interesting to look at. Extensively used Selectors in JQuery for updating content on DOM nodes. Knowledge on using SASS, for few functions like color manipulation, parameter lists. Used Bootstrap and CSS for effective design of Web pages. Used JQuery Ajax for requesting data and response processing. Designed few unique themes wif rich and flexible to accommodate different scenarios in which the user might want to display the data. Configuring workflow using task runner Grunt, package management tools BOWER, Node.js for the server side run-time environment. Used NPM, Grunt and Gulp to run the tasks and to properly build the project. Client-side scripting and DOM manipulation wif core JavaScript and JQuery. Performed client side validations over the forms using JavaScript. Experienced in UI development for mobile and tablet devices. Integrated audio and video clippings on the web page along wif multimedia. Utilized MongoDB having user generated data. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, NODE.JS, ANGULARJS, REACT JS, SASS, BOOTSTRAP, DOM, JSON, AJAX, GRUNT, BOWER, ECLIPSE, JASMINE, IOS, SUBLIME TEXT, BRACKETS. Confidential, Sacramento, CA Sr. UI /Web Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the development of programming user interface design and front-end (HTML) for the Web application using HTML, CSS, LESS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS to the requirements of the client. Using AngularJS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI. Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design and media queries. Developed client-side validation wif AngularJS. Using advanced level of JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, and pure CSS layouts. Used Ajax to refresh only certain section of the page and reduce the load on the web server. Responsible for making all the content available for any type of resolutions. Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Bootstrap and media queries. Used JQuery Ajax to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time in web pages to get user input and requests. Responsible for the design of client websites right from the conceptualization stage. Worked wif JSON to exchange data between client and server. Developed the web page code wif high flexibility using the Document Object Model (DOM) i.e., removability and reinsertion of nodes is made easy. Used Jasmine framework for testing JavaScript code. Used tools such as firebug, web developer tools for debugging and correcting errors. Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers. Used GIT as source repository and controlling versions of the code. Environment: HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, ANGULARJS, NODE.JS, JASMINE, FIREBUG, BOOTSTRAP, DOM, JSON, LESS, NPM, GRUNT, BOWER, APACHE TOMCAT SERVER, GIT, SUBLIME TEXT, EDIT PLUS. Confidential, Ooltewah, TN. UI Developer Responsibilities: Interacted wif the clients to gather & analysing business requirements of the various modules of the project. Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner wif using web technologies like HTML and CSS as per company standards. Used Node.js as the package manager for development workflow dependent plugins. Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS. Coded extensively in JQuery to make rich internet web pages. Created a webpage using CSS, JQuery, and JavaScript to make the web page dynamic. Data exchanged between web applications and servers in JSON format. Implemented scripting wif Ajax and XML to dynamically refresh the page contents. Used JavaScript to create interfaces and halp manage cross browser compatibility. Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript. Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects wif MySQL. Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application. Redesigned the existing site and to create new interfaces. Improved user experience by designing and creating new web components and features. Worked wif media queries and mobile UI development to customize the View. Created and maintained the framework and layout of each portal wif Cascading Style Sheets (CSS). Involved in the search for errors, broken links and missing images etc. and rectify. Environment: HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, ANGULARJS, NODE.JS, DOM, JSON, XML, GIT, ECLIPSE, JBOSS, SVN, SUBLIME TEXT. Confidential Software Engineer Responsibilities: Extensively involved in the design, coding, deployment and maintenance of the project. Responsible for design and development of web pages using HTML, CSS including AJAX controls and XML. Worked closely wif other senior developers, product managers, system architects, and the QA team to deliver optimal designs and software to meet and exceed expectations. Defined text alignment, size, borders, and many other typographic characteristics. Participated in meetings wif the end-clients to develop layout, color scheme for the web page and implemented them wif the halp of HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using JQuery and JavaScript. Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly. Designed and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML. Worked on JQUERY to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request. Used SVN for Version Control. Performed GET and POST requests in Ajax of XML, JSON using JavaScript, JQuery. Involve in fixing Front-End issues wif the layouts. Responsible for making all the content available for any type of resolutions. Adobe Photoshop TEMPhas been used to create different banners and designs. Environment: HTML, CSS, JQUERY, JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, JSON, XML, DOM, SVN, ADOBE PHOTOSHOP, EDIT PLUS, BRACKETS, JS FIDDLE. 