SUMMARY Over 6 years of IT experience in designing, developing and proposing solutions for Enterprise Web Applications in Java/JEE, AEM5.6, AEM 6.0, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3 to build websites, apps and forms. Expertise in Java Content Repository (API) suite, Sling web framework and Apache Felix OSGi framework. Proficiency with Sightly, CRX, JCR, DAM, Apache Felix, Apache Slings and OSGI technologies Experience in Designing and build components, templates, dialogs, Tagging, User creation, Custom widgets and workflows using the Adobe CQ/AEM and knowledge in CQ5 building blocks, CRX repository. Good understanding of content - centric application development patterns using Adobe Experience Manager. Proficient in using various IDEs like CRXDE, CRXDE-Lite, RAD, and Eclipse. Strong in AEM DAM, developed custom code to create assets, renditions, creating custom metadata for assets and assign Tags to assets. Migrated components from legacy CQ5 CMS to new implementation on AEM 6.3. Integration of AEM with Adobe Marketing tools and external systems Good web page design skills and work experience in developing web applications covering front-end/UI using the web internet technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML, AJAX and Content Management Systems with emphasis on W3C and usability standards. Expertise in developing integrated business applications using Hibernate, Spring framework (Spring Core Framework, AOP, Spring Integration, Spring Batch, Spring MVC, Spring Web flow and Spring Security), Struts, JSF Framework and Web Services (JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAXP, JAXB). Strong Experience with Java technologies including:Core Java, java Collections,Multi-Threading, JSP, JDBC, Servlets. Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC. Strong experience in using version control tools like Git, GitHub, Subversion (SVN) and CVS. Well versed with Software Development Life Cycle and Agile Methodology (Scrum). Solid knowledge in Web Services using Service Oriented Architecture(SOA) and Web/Application servers like WebLogic6.1/8.1,WebSphere, JBoss,andApache Tomcat 8.0/7.0 Experience managing daily communication with an offshore development teams. TECHNICAL SKILLS Content Management:  AEM 5.6.1, AEM6.0, AEM6.1, 6.2, 6.3 HTL Languages:  Sightly, Handlebars, JSP Web Technologies:  XML, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JSON, Linux Shell Script, JQuery, Apache Sling, Jackrabbit/Oak, JCR Languages:  JAVA/J2EE JavaScript, core java, SQL. Programming:  HTML 4.0, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Sybase, UNIX Shell Scripting. MVC frameworks:  Spring MVC, Groovy and Grails. Application Servers:  JBoss, Apache Tomcat Web Servers:  Apache HTTP Server, NJINX Databases:  Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, SQL Server 2000, 2005 & 2008, MySQL. Tools:  RAD, Eclipse, Rational Rose, JDeveloper, NetBeans, Toad, SQL developer. Version Control Systems:  GIT, GITHUB, SVN and CVS. Environment:  Windows, MAC, LINUX, UNIX. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Troy, MI Sr.AEM Developer Responsibilities: Developed Custom Workflows, OSGi Services, and other Dynamic web content management components. Created custom servlet using selector which removes any unwanted or junk metadata on json inorder to reduce the size of json file. Used Exiftool command line program to read metadata from asset. Used the Java based xpath API in theAEMworkflow process to parse and read the XML. Wrote scheduler service inAEMwhich will read the entire dam asset with expiry date, if found any expiry it will send the asset json for that image. Worked on DAM Assets, Package Manager, Package Share, Replication and other tools provided byAEMwith core knowledge on implementation of utilization part. Setup and configured Authoring and Publishing environments,replication agents,AEM Dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache. Participate as part of a project team to design, code, and test extensible, reusable, and scalable server/client and web service applications. Worked on defects reported by the QA team and working towards fixing them. Working with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console. Used JIRA as tracking tool in the agile/scrum methodology. Excellent estimation abilities in scoping work in a highly complex environment. Analyzed and resolved technical issues relating to content management. Communicate with the clients on modules, requirements and change requests for any queries on either side. Environment: AEM6.3,AEM6.2, Java, Eclipse, Maven, Log4J, Apache Felix, Apache Sling, Apache Solr, JSP, JIRA, Web Services, SDLC, OSGI, Servlets, Sightly HTML, JavaScript, Brackets, Jackrabbit, Jenkins, GIT. Confidential, Sunnyvale, CA Sr. AEM Developer Responsibilities: Developed custom page content components, page templates, dialogs for web pages using Sightly. Developed and deployed custom OSGi bundles in AEM. Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, Angular JavaScript and CSS. Wrote java classes with SCR annotations to define OSGi services and programmatically access the JCR nodes. Design custom workflows for asset soft delete, creating B&W renditions, publishing web pages and content authoring. Every aspect of the web page, starting from title tags and Meta information to paragraphs of the content is designed and developed in such a way that it can be adjusted by content authors or restricted to only advanced administrators. Used Jira for bug tracking and project management. Creating/modifying templates as per new requirements, custom dialogs and updating the client libraries. Strong knowledge onAEMassociated technologies like Sling, OSGI, JCR, and CRX. Worked on web services to consume the data from the application API's. Hands on experience building and deploying solutions onAEMand experience developing for the Touch UI. Worked on workflows to approve/reject assets and assign tags. Part of the application support team for fixing the incidents after the deployment. Developed Adobe CQ templates and reusable components like multi-field components and customized other OOTB components. Working on defects reported by the QA team and working towards fixing them. Customized dialogs for all the components for providing various options to authors while creating. Used GIT, BITBUCKET as the version controllers. Worked on AGILE methodology where we size the tasks by brain storm once in Sprint and participated in scrum stand-ups on daily basis. Environment: AEM6.1, 6.2, 6.3, DAM, CQ Tagging, Java8, J2EE, Apache Maven, Sightly, JIRA, Servlets, Search & Promote, Workflows, Externalizer, HTML5, JSP, AJAX, JUnit, Mac, Windows. Confidential, Rockville, MD Sr. AEM Developer Responsibilities: Worked on migration project from CQ 5.6 to AEM 6.3 for AEM communities’ components Drafted migration strategy by splitting into infra migration; code migration; content migration Moved UGC content from JSRP to ASRP Developed a tool to view/edit UGC content as json format Worked on code migration by fixing correct uber jar versions in pom.xml and dependency versions. Then fixed compilation issues and functional issues Performed content migration by moving content pages from 5.6 environment to 6.3 environment and fixing cosmetic issues. Created a checklist document for CQ 5.6 to AEM 6.3 migration. Worked on Client side performance improvement by analyzing website metrics using google page speed and Pingdom. Analyzed poor performing js scripts and refactored fixing the performance bleeds Implemented dynamic image solution using ACS commons Image transformer to render different resolution images for different break points Enhanced cacheing strategy at Apache and Akamai by correcting rewrite rules and dispatcher rules. Worked on AEM editor console customization using sling resource merger by extending /libs console code and customizing them based of business requirements. Worked on Wrote custom workflows for publishing web pages and content authoring. Design and development of web pages using Sightly, HTL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JQuery. Worked on Tar Compaction and Indexing as a part of application maintenance. Created the blueprints and live copy of the multisite manager application. Environment: s: Java, J2EE,Core java, AEM 6.3, CQ5.6.1 (WCM), AEM DAM, Workflows, Apache Sling, CRXDE, JCR, WCM, Sightly, HTML, DHTML, Linux, Adobe Cloud Confidential, Georgetown, KY Sr. AEM Developer Responsibilities: Worked on complete end-to-end AEM adoption project from scratch. Organized design workshops with business team and client architect to explain AEM concepts and analogizing them close to their existing applications. Prepared the initial draft version for project architect guide Worked with UX team on discovery phase helping to prepare UX library as per business need. Worked with infra team in drafting physical architecture diagram of project. Created the low level design document capturing all requirements from scope matrix Created maven archtype 10 project using eclipse for AEM and fixed the maven pom xmls to match to project specification. Drafted the content structure and DAM structure for the website Integrated Google maps into coral widget for content authors to pick a location in map within the touchUI dialog. Create customized site map xml and component Designed and developed, CQ5 building blocks including templates, components, dialogs, widgets, workflows Customized dialogs for all the components for providing various options to authors while creating. Integrated youtube into content finder helping content authors to drag and drop youtube videos onto video component. Setup code reviews and drafted coding standards document. Used SVN as version control and integrated with Hudson for continuous integration and sightly builds. Define implementation processes, quality gates and standards. Adopt and utilize Iterative/Agile methodology as needed or requested. Environment: Adobe AEM6.2, JAVA, OSGi, Jsp, Servlets, Sightly, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY, Jenkins, Maven, Eclipse, SVN Confidential AEM Developer Responsibilities: Worked on content migration from non-AEM system (IBM WCM) to AEM. Created sling servlets that will read legacy content from XML files and create AEM page structures and map page properties and their values. Created MySQL based reporting structure to keep track of migrated content Fixed bugs thrown during content migration. Strategized migration approach for huge volume content of ~8K pages per site for 70+ countries and 24 languages. Analyzed business requirements on wireframes and UX specs for new templates and components development Developed components as per requirements. Custom xtype was developed in ExtJS to add an image + text + pathfinder within same multifield in dialog. Prepared content authoring guide helping content authors about usages and functionality of each component. Created OSGi component and services for configurable parameters. Utilized ACM Commons Generic lists for country listing across multiple components Multiple embedded pages were developed and used in different pages in the application. Whenever there is a change then business people can update the embedded pages instead of updating every page. Custom configuration settings were developed in CRXDE. Whenever user wants to change some url’s or some properties they can change in CQ side without touching java code. Created the blueprints and live copies for the application as per MSM strategy. Resource mapping was used to hide the actual url and show the partial url to the user Components were developed using HTML, HTML5, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery and AngularJS. Environment: Java,J2EE, Sling Servlets, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, Agile, Adobe CQ, WCM, DAM, CRXDE, Eclipse, Sling, Apache Felix, Apache Jackrabbit, JCR. Confidential Web Developer Responsibilities: Developed the User Interactive web pages in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML, XHTML and CSS as per company's standards. Implemented design process upon client approval and built out all assets: buttons, products shots, UI components, etc. Worked on JavaScript and jQuery to develop client side validation. Utilized various jQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive. Designed and developed the layouts of Customer Relations Module. Good knowledge of debugging JavaScript and html code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome JavaScript debugger. Involved in team meetings with corporate Webmaster's UI team and end user client for understanding needs in new implementation & Involved in daily team meetings & weekly scrum meetings. Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Agile methodology, JSON. Confidential Java/UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Object Oriented Design and development using OOA/OOD methodology to identify business requirements for developing software specifications. Involved in Technical Design Document outlining the Functional specifications and detailed Technical Design based on the business requirement. Involved in implementing business logic and database connectivity. Designed UI using HTML, CSS and Java Scripts for interactive functionalities and complex user interface. Developed simple Struts Validation for user inputs as per the business logic following the MVC Architecture. Developed Java Servlets for building dynamic web sites and to access the database information on a Web server using Java Beans. Created and implemented Oracle Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and some complex queries using SQL and PL/SQL as well as query optimization. Worked collaboratively with other Development teams, System managers and Web master. Environment: Java6, J2EE 6, JSP 2.2, Java Servlets 3.0, Apache Struts 2.1, HTML 4, CSS 3 JavaScript, XML, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i and Apache Ant 1.7. 