SUMMARY Over 9+ years of experience in designing and developing enterprise level web application using PHP/Drupal Technology. Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using jQuery, Drupal, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap and experience in making web pages cross browser compatible. Designed and developed Applications in all the major versions of the PHP: PHP5 and worked with XAMPP, WAMPP, LAMP and UBERCART environments. Hands on experience UI/UX development to create a seamless customer experience for a high traffic E - commerce such as WordPress and Magneto website through desktop mobile and smart phone app interfaces Experienced inDrupalthemes, modules and familiarity with theDrupalAPI and hook system Develop, test and implement cross-browser compatibleDrupalthemes using valid XHTML/CSS. Familiarity with large multi-serverDrupalenvironments, administration, and integration with various third-party sites with open APIs. Extensive working experience using Symphony, Zend, Laravel & Cake PHP Frameworks. Proficient in designing and developing the front end, component-based and object-oriented systems for building multi-tier architecture with hands-on development expertise in front end GUI layer. Very good experience in Document Object Model (DOM) and have a strong understanding of DOM Functions, and also experienced in dealing with challenging High Traffic Websites and Cross Browser Issues. Experienced on working with CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS. Excellent experience in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards. Experienced applying the latest development approaches including MVC framework in the browser, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML. Experienced with creating and consuming Restful and SOAP services. Expertise in checking Cross Browser Compatibility of different elements and tags hence worked on different browsers like Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Firefox, Opera and Safari. Strong in Web designing technologies like HTML5, XHTML, JavaScript, CSS3, JQuery, Ajax and JSON. Expertise in developing websites using JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS and BackboneJS. Experienced on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Box Model, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements. Have very good knowledge and experience on using Backbone.js and Backbone Marionette.js to create new robust UIs Proficient in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) i.e. web applications using Backbone.js, node.js, handlebars and mustache.js Worked in Agile environment in quite a few projects. Expertise in Client Side designing and validations using HTML, CSS, DHTML and JavaScript. Sound Understanding and good Experience with Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript, Object Oriented Design and Implementation. Experienced on building both table-based and table less websites for clients. Usage of JSON for faster and impulsive responses. Using Bower, Grunt and NPM for project maintenance and installing the dependencies on client side Wrote unit tests using mocha, chai, jasmine and karma. Strong Knowledge on spring and cucumber. Significant experience in using tools like Firebug and Chrome Inspector Tools. Experienced in working with various databases like Oracle, SQL Server, Mongo DB and MYSQL. Highly motivated, reliable analytical problem solver and troubleshooter with strong attention to detail. Adaptable to new, evolving technologies and can implement them in current projects. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages:  PHP, C, C++, ASP.Net, PL/SQL, TSQL. Web Technologies:  HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, AJAX, jQuery, Bootstrap.js, Angular.js, Backbone.js, JavaScript, JSON, node.js, Google maps, JQuery Data tables library. Graphics Tool:  Adobe Photoshop Framework:  jQueryUI, Kendo, Drupal 8and CodeIgniter MVC framework, Joomla, WordPress, Symfony, Laravel. DeveloperTools:  Eclipse IDE, Notepad++, Dreamweaver, MS-Visio Other Tools:  Grunt, JIRA, Firebug, ChromeDevelopersTool. Methodologies:  Agile, Waterfall Database:  Oracle 11g/12c, SQL Server2016, Mongo DB and MYSQL Operating Systems:  Windows 8/7, Mac OS X, UNIX, Linux Monitering Tools:  Nagios, Cisco NMS, SiteScope, SCOM) with BPPM via API(adapters) and snmp traps. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Princeton, NJ Sr. PHP/Drupal Developer Responsibilities: Led application development across all aspects using the SDLC method, including requirement analysis, system design, implementation, testing, deployment and maintenance. Developed fully functional, cross browser compatible websites on DRUPAL 8 platform utilizing Agile and Scrum methodologies. Developed/Design the application using WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL5, and PHP) architecture using Laravel Framework. Assisted in migrating legacy PHP 7.2 web app to Python/Django. Used all aspects of MYSQL/PHP Programming (object oriented PHP) in LAMP environment. Developed Custom Modules using Zend Forms, Validations, View Helpers, Action Helpers, and Zend Layouts. Used new field types and started working on CKEditor for adding content, article. Used many different core modules in Drupal8 like CKEditor, Block, Field SQL Storage, Dynamic page cache modules. Worked on HUB module for implementing Single Sign on Service (SSO) by implementing Drupal Web Services. Used npm commands to mix the CSS and JavaScript files in Laravel. Involved in creating custom themes and modules using services, controllers and with dependency injection. Developed web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Oracle databases Involved in re-skinning of website developed in Drupal 8 and developed custom modules to support the system. Implement Central Authentication Server usingLaravel5.4,LaravelPassport, Backpack and related packages Worked on custom panels, blocks, content types, and views to customize the look of the site. Created Drupal modules for Active log sessions and Service Reporting System. Used WordPress for developing web pages. Worked on an open-source CMS Drupal to build website using Drupal 8. Building the web pages from scratch using Drupal 8 & PHP. Contribute to theLaravelBackpack administration packages Used Backup and Migrate for migration and staging process. Administered and configured workstations to automate themonitoringprocess. Used some of the standards of section 508 for the web improvisation using WCAG. Installed and configured Drupal on several environments; Development, staging and testing (LAMP Stack). Develop RESTfulLaravel5.4 backend for the "Fuel Entry Application" usingLaravel, Backpack and a Vue 2.0 based "easy entry" frontend A highly configurable repositorymonitoring/loggingtool, allowing an administrator to any scope of disk activity (drive, directory tree, directory, file) Developed SQL Queries and stored procedures using MYSQL to fetch complex data from different tables in remote databases. Implemented streamlined navigation bar on web pages using CSS3, Bootstrap 3.0 and JQuery. Used AJAX and JSON for creating interactive web pages Used the Node.js, Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications. Worked on ReactJS and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags. Extensively modified REST HTTP service based client and server web applications Implemented Business Logic in the Controller layer of the help center application Developed test cases and performed unit test using PHPUnit, Jasmine Tested application using Firebug and Xdebug. Acting supervisor for third shiftmonitoringtoolcoordination, troubleshoot and maintenance Used GIT for version control Applied the data source from Oracle databases and target system using SQL queries. Created tile definitions, Struts-Config files, validation files and resource bundles for all modules using Struts framework. Environment: HTML 5.6, CSS 3, Bootstrap 4.0, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache Server 2.2, PHP 7.2, Oracle 12c, Laravel 5, React.JS, Node.js, Firebug 2.0.8, Xdebug 2.2.7, GIT Confidential, Columbus, OH Sr. PHP/Drupal Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Responsible for installing, configuring and maintainingDrupal, PHP, Apache and MYSQL on AWS Cloud Servers. Worked with symphony, design patterns like singleton pattern, registry pattern and model view control pattern in Magento framework. Implemented the application using Magento 2.0 Enterprise Framework on Linux Environment web server. Gathered requirements and understanding them along with functional documents design. Developed JavaScript and jQuery scripts to interface with other social network tools like Twitter and developed views to show leading matrices inDrupal. Developing various design patterns and other functionalities include diagnostic, debugging, troubleshooting, as well as business processes concentrated around E-Commerce applications Installing, configuring selected modules inDrupaland managing, supportingDrupalwebsites. Functionalities include writing code in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and JSP making use of Bootstrap framework. Developed theme customization, responsive theme, extensions installation & Custom extension using Magento. Designed and developed web applications that conform to accessibility standards (WCAG) Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS. Participated in the research of new technologies like JQUERY-Mobile for few potential mobile app development efforts Developed web applications and e-commerce web sites within a LAMP (Linux, Apache, MYSQL, and PHP) environment that includes distributed web servers and a MYSQL database cluster. Features ofDrupalsuch as blocks, content types, views, slideshow creation, and theaming are all involved. Involved in Wireframe creation and converted the wireframes into HTML and CSS based prototypes. Used Open Layer to render Geospatial Geographical views, which will be used to analyze Data. Extensively used D3.JS for visualizing bar chart (horizontal, vertical), nvd3 for single axis and multi axis line chart, Dimple JS for bubble chart Developed responsive design with Media Queries and achieved responsiveness on different tables, screen sizes, tablet and mobile. Integrated Restful web service calls to get data from response and show them on UI. Designed databases, utilized MYSQL, PHP used HTML and VBScript, which ran Confidential client side. Developed applications using AngularJS single page applications SPAs to improve page performance. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript and used Spring JDBC to connect to Hana database. Fired several queries using PL/SQL to process the data on Hana and Greenplum DB. Configured Rest and Soap web service modules to consume web service from external sources. Designed and implemented Connection pooling for high-level performance. Used Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for Software Development. Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management functions. Worked on various two different projects writing HTML, CSS and JavaScript based on provided designs to get web sites and web applications built within a team atmosphere. Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Maven to build the application and deployed it on Tomcat Worked on Export to Excel and Print functionality and was able to print whole web page in landscape mode. Worked with front end build environment of Grunt, NodeJs Created custom directives for common functionality to be used in every view. Used GIT as the source control and STASH as repository. Responsible for writing Unit tests for services, controllers and directives and used Karma to run the tests. Environment: PHP 7.0, Drupal 8, Magento 2.0, Symphony, HTML5.5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery, SOAP, XML, MVC,,Zend Framework, Adobe Photoshop, Agile, LAMP, Jasmine, Karma Confidential, Atlanta, GA Sr. PHP/Drupal Developer Responsibilities: Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development. Worked on Agile based development cycle with a weekly release Schedule. UsedDrupal, including custom content types, Features, and extensive custom module development. Used JavaScript, CSS, and HTML including performance handling, optimization, security, and AJAX. Used Bootstrap and AngularJS in effective web design and also involved in refactoring the existing code. Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using PHP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Bootstrap with MySQL database. Migrated existing sites toDrupal7. Work included custom content type creation, Views building, custom module development including Features, and importing of old site users and content. Wrote module to import users and event content from old site into newDrupal7 site. Involved in developing a data dash boarding site using AngularJS, C# and D3. Implemented UI to provide user feedback on their query for self-service metrics. Developed custom modules to support reporting and inventory workflow requirements. Used PHP and shell scripts to integrate with existing EDI process. Developed source code to consume JSON response received through AJAX calls using JQuery. Worked on producing reusable client-side MVC code. Built Web Services using SOAP and Parsed XML using PHP and implemented Tree Based Parsing Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 widgets / libraries for complexUI controls. Used frameworks like Bootstrap to develop UI with responsive design. Unit testing with mocha, chai, sinon; Integration testing using hippie Worked on several dashboards that connect to API and display charts with correct data. Worked with Drush 5.0 for extending the abilities to managerDrupal. Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with AngularJS controllers under specific modules, manipulating nodes in DOM tree Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, created HTML navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived. Used AngularJS to achieve the two-way data binding. Cross browser testing in IE and Chrome. Setup agile iteration, product life cycle and had daily scrum meetings. Worked heavily onDrupalCMS development and developed various custom modules. Worked on adding ability to force cache refresh from UI. Responsible for writing Unit tests for services, controllers and directives and used chutzpah to run the tests. Environment: Drupal 7, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, C#, AngularJS, D3.JS, JavaScript, JQuery, Node.js JSON, MS Visual Studio, Jasmine, TFS, Chutzpah, Bootstrap, Microsoft Azure, Tortoise SVN, SASS Confidential, New York, NY Sr. PHP Developer Responsibilities: Developed all the UI pages using PHP, HTML, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax. Developed non-functional HTML/5, CSS3 pages from the mock ups and involved inUIreview with UIarchitect and Business Units. Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model. Develop front end and back end web applications with the help of PHP and HTML. Implemented dashboard enhancements to the Verified website using PHP, LARAVEL Framework, JQuery and HTML. Worked on functionalities like External mail, Filters, Pop up Mail, Sorting. Used Twitter Bootstrap for CSS framework. Created DOM for collections of data. Worked with several collections of data using JSON format. Datasets are collected from back end server PHP file using API and these data-collections are then requested back to client-side using HTML, DHTML and CSS. Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part Confidential client side for all the applications. Created and tested different front-end forms using PHP, AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS and CSS. Involved in Writing jQuery based Ajax Requests. Used jQuery Events to manipulate the elements depends on the user interactions. Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Designed, developed and maintained an automatic e-mail from using PHP, CSS. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework. Developed PHP based server side API using Zend framework and implemented MVC architecture. Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively. Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, created HTML navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML. Used AngularJS to achieve the two-way data binding. Used Bootstrap and AngularJS in effective web design. Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions. Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms. Worked on HTTP and Restful interfaces and uses that knowledge to debug AJAX requests. Involved in writing and modifying Procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers. Worked in Onsite - Offshore model. Written SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database. Successfully executed the entire test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles. Environment: PHP5, MYSQL, JSON, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular.JS, JQuery, APTANA, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, Linux, MS Visio, SOAP, XML, MVC, DOM,Drupal, Zend Framework, Adobe Photoshop, LAMP. Confidential PHP Developer Responsibilities: Developed/Design the application using WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and PHP) architecture Involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support. Involved in implementing MVC architecture to segregate business logic from the view using OOP in PHP 5. Worked closely with Business Analysts and Product team in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs. Worked in teams where requirements were constantly being implemented, tested and improved through an In-house AB Testing framework. Used PHP MYADMIN for MYSQL connectivity and management. Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility. Created Cross-Browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-base page layouts. Migrated content from existing website to a new, database driven website, utilized in house Content Management System. Designed table-less layouts using CSS and appropriate HTML tags as per W3C standards. Developed PHP pages using ZEND Model View Controller design pattern (MVC). Developed the custom data grids upon JQUERY framework to deliver the business data. Used JQUERY plug-ins to implement features as a light box, sliders and other intuitive features. Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag gable components using JQUERY UI Library. Developed AJAX based web based UI framework by utilizing JQUERY library. Used AJAX for implementing part of the functionality for Customer Registration, View Customer information modules. Designed and developed web applications that conform to accessibility standards (WCAG) Converted wire frames to HTML prototypes. Created optimized graphic websites and application interfaces using HTML and CSS. Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying. Environment: JQuery, Zend, Linux, Bootstrap, AngularJS, PHP, JSON, Drupal6, CSS, Eclipse, JavaScript, MVC, MVVM, HTML 4, CSS 2, LAMP, AJAX, XML, XHTML, My SQL, Google map API V3. 