SUMMARY Around 8 years of experience in Systems Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various applications including Web and Client/Server Application development using Microsoft .NET Framework, Visual Studio, C#.NET, ASP.NET. Experience with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) namely Waterfall, Agile and Prototype and good noledge in SCRUM methodology and CMS system. Experience in Designing, Development and Deployment of High - Performance, Scalable, Distributed, ASP.NET Applications. Experience in Test Driven Development (TDD) and Automation. Experience in NUnit Testing and Implementation of Client/Server applications using C#, Oracle and MS SQL Server with N-tier development environment. Experience in designing, developing and updating Web-Forms using .NET Technologies like HTML, CSS, C#, AJAX, Telerik, JQuery, ASP .Net and Silverlight. Used Silverlight for better look and feel using controls, Layouts, Styles and Data Binding. Worked on themes and styling for the application. Used Windows PowerShell for configuration management and task automation. Experience in consuming, building and implementing Web Services using SOAP and REST Protocols. Strong understanding of SOLID design principals and exposure to Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Builder, Fascade, Strategy, Template etc. Excellent noledge in Object Oriented analysis and design (OOAD), Agile Development Methodology, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Model-View-Controller Architecture 3.0/4.0 (MVC). Strong C# and ASP.Net skills focused on creating Web-forms and ASP.Net server controls. Developed next generation applications using the .NET Framework, Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) and MVC (Model View Controller). Developed web applications using Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology. Experience in implementing .NET Security features like Autantication and Authorization usingForm-based and Window-based autantication, Authorizing Users, Roles and User Account Impersonation, tracing. Experience in data accessing using Data Adapter, Data Reader & Data Set, Entity Framework in ADO.NET and Language Integrated Query (LinQ), LinQ to SQL &LinQ to XML. Good experience in ASP.Net 4.0, VB.Net, SQL PLUS, ASPX, Java Script, jQuery, AngularJS, DHTML, IIS, LDAP Queries and SharePoint. Experience in development of a well responsive single page application using AngularJS framework, JavaScript, jQuery and C# in conjunction with HTML5 and CSS3. Experience in creating Services and Endpoints and working with WCF (Windows Communication foundation). Design, Code and Test web applications using HTML, C#, NUNIT. Converted .Net application to Microsoft Azure Cloud Service Project as part of cloud deployment. Involved on migrating SQL Server databases to SQL Azure Database using SQL Azure Migration Wizard. Experience in using libraries like ASP.NET Signal R to develop applications in ASP.NET which helps in adding web functionality to them. In-depth noledge of WPF and experience dat includes: authoring custom controls, data binding, control templates, styles, triggers, behaviors, data entry forms, nested forms and grids, data validation. Hands on experience in MS SQL Server and Oracle database design, development and in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined Functions. Experience with SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) for data extraction, transformation and loading. Experience using SSIS tools like Import and Export Wizard, Package Installation and SSIS Package Designer. Experience in creating drill down, drill through and linked reports using SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services) and Crystal Reports with multi-valued parameters and LOV's. Experience of Design patterns like MVC 4.0/5.0 and MVVM. Acquaintance using report generation tool Crystal Reports. Highly dedicated, quick starter, solution driven pattern programmer, strong in Object Oriented Analysis and Design. Excellent at solving complex problems under strict deadlines, communication and interpersonal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: Windows 2003, Windows 7, Windows 8, 8.1, UNIX, Linux. Programming Languages: C#, ASP.NET, Angular JS, jQuery, Typescript, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, VB.NET, ADO.NET, XML, XSL, XSLT, C, C++, VC++, VB6.0, ASP.NET .NETTechnologies: Microsoft .NETFramework (CLR, CLS, CTS), Win Forms, Web Forms, SOAP 1.1, WSDL, UDDI, .NET Remoting, COM/COM+ Interoperability, NUnit, NAnt, NDocNReport, NHibernate, WCF, WPF Web Development: ASP.NET, ASP.NETMVC, Web Services, ASP, IIS 6.0, VBScript, AJAX, JSON. Development Tools: Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Team Foundation Server, Microsoft Application Center Test, StarTeam, VSS, JBuilder, Netbeans, Toad, SSIS, SSRS, MOSS 2007, Infragistics, WinDbg, Oxygen 2010, Gliffy, Beyond Compare, RAD/IDE Visual Studio Unit Testing Frameworks: MS-Test, Nunit, Jasmine, Karma Dependency Injection Tools: StructureMap, Ninject, Unity Framework RDBMS: MS-SQL Server, Oracle, DB2, MySQL, T-SQL,Sybase Source Repositories: Git Hub, TFS, VSS Modeling and Design Tools: Microsoft Visio, IBM Clearcase, Rational Rose, UML Software Methodologies: SDLC, Agile, OOAD, DDD, TDD PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Topeka,KS Sr. Dot Net Developer Responsibilities: Experitise in requirement gathering, database design, N-Tier Application development (MVC), User Interface, Application Layer, Business Layer, XML Parsing, creating and consuming Web Services, system integration and deployment. Activly participated in deployment activities like solving dll issues in Visual Studio 2017. Leveraged WCF mechanisms like sessioning, Instance management, and concurrency to make our services more robust and scalable. Developed Core Application solution using Visual Studio 2017. Used JavaScript, Angular, Node, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 for frontend development. Implemented View Model patterns/ in creating and managing Views, Partial Views, View Models, Web APIs using ASP.NET MVC, Custom Error Pages. Worked on Cloud based Azure technology. Worked on UI design functionality, Utilized React Js, Bootstrap, CSS selectors and HTML elements for the better display of the modules on front-end. Implicated in action in Analysis, Design and Development phases of the web application. Involved in the SCRUM meetings with other team members to examine the flow of the project. Agile Methodology is being used for the development with daily scrums, coupled with Test-Driven Development (TDD). Developed the portals using .Net Framework 4.6. Developed Restful Services using Webapi core. Implemented Auto Mapper in order to map Db Entities to Domain Entities. Enhanced and developed UI functionality using HTML, XML, XAML. Used Web API as an ideal platform in building Restful applications on .NET Framework. Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such as to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the controller. Responsible for designing the ASP.NET application autantication using .NET Framework, Model View Controller MVC and IIS security model. Involved working with Control development and Dynamic Templates using WPF. Used multi threading and multi processing to improve the performance. Used VBAtool for controlling Excel. Implemented Entity Framework Code First Approach with Repository Pattern and its implementation over the Business and Presentation layers. Implemented Entity Framework Migrations to enforce the frequent changes in Conceputal layer changes to database. Created and consumedASP.NET Web services and implemented REST full Web API/WCF services for service layer, created Action filters and Exception filters to implement REST API. Created & hosted WCF Services and also used different bindings to make it available to different types of clients. Created automated Unit test plans and performed Unit testing modules according to the requirements and development standards with NUnit testing. Created Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers using T-SQL in SQL Server 2012 to insert, update, and delete data inside tables. Built DataSync job on Windows Azure to synchronize data from SQL 2012 databases to SQL Azure. Building automation framework using Specflow and XUnit. Responsible for maintaining versions of source code using Team Foundation Server. Fixing Assembly issues and deployment issues in Visual Studio 2012. Prepared WCF Service layer to handle client-service interaction. Involved package creation and deployment. Enterprise n-tier software agent using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) web service hosted on IIS. Created AngularJS Controllers, Scope, Model, view, Services, Factory etc., which Isolate scopes perform operations in UI. ExtensivlyusedDevEx 11.1.8 for information gathering. Created the link servers to pull the data from different data sources and used them in the stored procedure which will be executing on the scheduled basis through SQL agent. Created automatically running stored procedures for day-end operation using SQL Server agent . Created new tables, wrote stored procedures for applications and some user defined functions. Responsible in developing Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, Scripts for database transactions on SQL server 2012. Involved in Troubleshooting and Debugging of the application within Stipulated time. Developing, monitoring, extracting and transforming data using SSIS. Created many Drill through and Drill Down reports using SSRS. Development of enterprise reports by pulling data from various sources and presenting in Telerik Rad. Environment: Visual Studio 2015, 2017, C#, ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework, WCF, WEB API, content management system, TFS, AngularJs, JQuery, Microsoft Enterprise Library, IIS 7.0, HTML 5, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, Rest Web Services, LINQ to Entities,Microsoft Windows Azure, SQL Server 2012 Confidential, Denver, CO Senior .NET Developer Responsibilities: Experitise in developing web application using asp.net MVC. Extensively used C#, Jquery and LINQ. Implemented agile scrum methodology in application development. Responsible for the Developing User Stories and coordinating with BA team. Used LINQ to Entities, LINQ to Dataset to collaborate the domain and integration objects with the view objects. Developed the application using C# in ASP.NET MVC 6.0 using agile methodology in 3-tier architecture. Worked on the CMS Kentico tool for UI design functionality. Utilized Angular 2.0, Bootstrap, CSS selectors and HTML elements for the better display of the modules on front-end. Analyzed and designed new features using C#.NET, ASP.NET and Kentico 10.0 Developed the portals using .Net Framework 3.6. Exposure to new features in Angular 2.0 to fully develop responsive front-end features using Angular JS directives, controllers, factories and services. Utilized UI- router angular modules in Angular 2.0 in developing single page applications. Created user interface usingSencha Good hands-on experience in writing modular, re-usable custom Ext JS component. Used Sencha SASS for customizing the application Expert in setting up the development environments, using Sencha Inspector, installing Sencha plugin, using Sencha command and setting up SVN for the project. Created portal pages for all the State Restaurant Association using partial views and razor syntax for all the SRAs in the US. Various validation controls has been created using JavaScript to perform validation of the fields. JQuery TEMPhas been used for extensively for creating controls such as calendars, menu bars, panels etc. Responsible for providing support and maintenance for Web application and was also involved in resolving the issues of the customers. Used User controls, Custom controls to suit user’s needs. TEMPEffectively managed project work by securing the source code, work item tracking, reporting and build using Visual Studio. Environment: NET Framework 4.0,C#, ASP.NET, MVC 4.0, WEB API 2.0, C#, ADO.NET, WCF, HTML, JQuery, JSON, IIS HTML, Bootstrap, XML, CSS, Ajax Toolkit, TFS, Visual Studio 2015, SQL Server 2012 Confidential .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Analysis, Design, Coding, and Testing and maintenance phase of modules of software lifecycle. Designed and developed complete front-end application using VB.NET Web Forms. Developed the components for middle tier (Business Layer) using VB.NET. Designed web forms by implementing CSS, HTML and JavaScript. Designed Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using UML. Prepared Technical design documentation for User Interface and Business layers using VISIO. Used Design Patterns like Factory and Singleton classes and methods. Web pages are developed using ASP.NET, C#.NET, Java Script, HTML and used Internet Information Server (IIS), Visual SourceSafe. Designed, developed and implemented Business Tier using ADO.NET, C#, and XML Web Services Created stored procedures and packages using. Used combination of server controls, HTML for User Interface design and Client side validation controls, Java Script for client side functionality implementation in Web application. Creating Test Plans, Testing and Documentation. Created User Controls for the header and footer of the website which appears in all the pages. Worked extensively on web forms and data binding controls like data list and drop down boxes. Used pagination and sorting features of data grid in reports. Designed and developed stored procedures and User defined functions SQL Server Database. Implemented role based security and customizable workflows based on a user's role. Created queries and stored procedures in the SQL Server Database Implemented validation using ASP.NET validation controls. Extensively worked on ADO.NET objects. Environment: ASP.NET 2.0, ADO.NET, C#, VB.NET 2005, .NET Framework 2.0, XML, MS SQL Server 2000, SQL, IIS6.0, WINDOWS 2000, SSRS 2005. Confidential .Net Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for Analysis, Design and Development. Analysis and design for the enhancement of the system. Handling Production issues and modifying the code according to the requirement. Developed C# code for the project. Design & development of Web application using ASP.Net, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, C#. Net, WCF, SOAP, XML technologies. Assigning Sprint work items to developers and conducting Sprint review meeting and Used Agile SCRUM process for the Risk Data team. Involved in the analysis, design and in gathering all the requirements from the client and development of the project. Attended Daily Stand up meetings with team. Worked on Agile Methodology (SCRUM). Developed code behind logic, business layers and data layers using C#. NET. Designed custom web parts using C#.net for SharePoint. Performed validations for the model from Client side and server side in ASP.NETMVC framework. Experience in implementing action filters, exception filters using ASP.NETMVC architecture. Used ASP.Net MVC for designing the layout pages, Partial Views and Razor views. Extensively used JavaScript, CSS, Ajax controls and Kendo UI and HTML for data binding. Engaged in development of web pages using ASP.NET, HTML, CSS and UI enhancement coding. Designed and created the database for the tool. Programmed ADO.NET for communication between application and the SQL Server. Wrote stored procedures to handle data manipulations using TSQL. Wrote test cases and performed regressiontesting. Giving the production support and maintenance. Bug fixing based on issue generated by the client. Involved in Unit & Functional Testing. Environment: VisualStudio.Net 2003, .Net Framework 1.1, C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, SQL Server 2005, IIS 5.0 CSS and VSS. 