SUMMARY 7+ Years strong experience in Oracle (BEA) Web Logic 8.x/9.x/10.x/10.3.x/11g/12c, WebSphere  6.1/7.0/8.0/8.5 and JBOSS AS 7.0/6.0/5.1, Tomcat 7/6.x/5.x/4.1, GlassFish V3.1/4.x Installation, configuration, administration and maintenance on Red Hat Linux 4/5/6, Sun Solaris 9/10, AIX 5.3, V6.1 and Windows XP/ 2003/2008. Production support engineer providing 24/7 expert technical support and consultation for WebLogic, JBoss, MQ Series Messaging, and SunOne web servers running on AIX 5.3, V6.1, Solaris 9/10 and RHEL 4/5 operating systems. Experience in Installed, configured JBoss 4.x/5.x/6.x software binary in all environments. Remarkable experience with JBoss EAP administration and good understanding of J2EE architectures, J2EE technologies and SOA. Familiarity with RHEL 5, JBoss EAP, JBoss AS 7.0, Apache 2.4, Tomcat 6.0, JON and proficient with JBoss EAP 5.0 to 6.0. Experience with installing, configuring, administering, implementing and performance tuning clustered SOA environments (11g). Expertise in the Administration, Installing, Configuring Apache 2.0/2.2/2.4, Sun ONE 7.1 Web Server (iPlanet), Apache Tomcat 6.0, Microsoft IIS Server, SiteMinder. Expertise in the Administration, Installing, Configuring Web Servers like Oracle HTTP Server, Apache  2.0/2.2/2.4. x, Sun One 6.1, Web Server (iPlanet) and Microsoft IIS Server. Created SCM Process, policies and procedures to follow development and SQA team to release and deploy highest quality product for the enterprise. Exposure on different Build tools like ANT and Maven. Developing Ant and Maven scripts to automate the compilation, deployment and testing of Web and J2EE applications to the above platforms. WebLogic and Tomcat Administrator experience, with knowledge in clustering, JMS, Connection Pools, J2EE Deployments, Thread Dump Analysis. Experience with enterprise tools like Control - M and Patrol. Responsible for providing onsite on basic agile principles, Scrum framework and Kanban. Responsible for standardizing processes across all teams and programs and portfolios. Performed root cause analysis and suggested tuning methods for Server problems like Server Crashes, Hangs and Out of Memory issues in various JDKs like SUN JDK 1.4.x/1.5.x/1.6.x and BEA JROCKIT 1.4.x/1.5.x/16.x. Expertise in migration and upgrading of WebLogic Server and updating JDK versions and installing patches for WebLogic server. Experienced on capacity planning and performance tuning of J2EE applications and platforms. Involved in analyzing IIS logs to collect information about server events, server performance, and user activity while troubleshooting. Strong experience with Java 1.7 and 1.8. Extensive experience in configuring Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control 10g/ Cloud Control 12c for centralized database management and monitoring. Extensive experience in implementing and configuring CA Site Minder Policy Server, Web agents and Oracle Directory Server (LDAP) on various platforms. Successfully completed the version upgrades (SiteMinder from 12 to 12.x, and 6.x to 12.x) on UNIX and Windows platforms. Experienced in migrating Oracle SOA based projects to Mule ESB Understanding of internet standards such as DNS, HTTP, HTML, JDBC, XML, SSH and SNMP. Build a new AEM instance and configured all the required configurations (httpd, dispatcher. Any) for the AEM to run as required Experienced with TCP/IP, UNIX, LAN, WAN Administration, Apache, WebLogic, Ethernet, Firewall, Java, UNIX Shell Scripting, Middleware, Web Server. Experienced in WLST, Python, shell scripting (bash) and ANT scripting to automate and monitor the WebLogic routine tasks. Linux (Red Hat) and Solaris experience. Expertise in Handling Code Releases and Deploying applications in Production. Significant experience with BigIP F5 Load Balancer administration. Experience working with ITIL and Service Management. Knowledge of storage systems such as NAS, SAN and RAID Array. Shell scripting for alerting and alarming on applications. Significant experience using HP OVO. Experienced in finding the Memory Leaks and adjusting the JVM Heap Sizes and GC Parameters. Experienced in working with LDAP, SSO, CSS/GSS load balancing. Configured SM Web agents for the Oracle LDAP Policy Server. Demonstrated ability to work both as an individual contributor and in a team environment. Designing and implementing solutions using Puppet open-source, Puppet Enterprise, Hiera, Facter, Puppet DB, r10k, Augeas, MCollective and related tools. TECHNICAL SKILLS Application Servers:  Oracle WebLogic 8.1/9.x/10.x/12.x Oracle SOA Suite 11g, OSB 11g, OEM 11g, WebLogic Portal 10I.3.5, IBM Web Sphere 6.x7.0,8.0,8.5, GlassFish V3.1/4.x, Tomcat 5.x,6.x, JBoss AS 7.0/6.0/5.1,TIBCO 5.10x,5.1x,4.9x Web Servers:  Apache Web Server 2.x/2.2/2.4.x, SunOne 6.1, IIS5.x/6.x/7.x, Oracle HTTP Server, IBM HTTP Server. Operating Systems:  Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Solaris 8/9/10, SUSE Linux, AIX 5.3, V6.1, Windows NT/XP/2003/2008. Languages:  Java, C, C++, PL/SQL, COBOL J2EE Technologies:  Visual Studio  2013/2012/2010/2008/2005 , Front Page, SQL Enterprise Manager, SQL Management Studio 2008/2012. Tools: and Utilities Cute FTP, Jprobe, Ant, XMLSpy, Symantec Esm 6.5 HPProliantBladeServers, Remedy, Service Now, Build tool Robot, Jenkins/Hudson, BuildBot, Parabuild,SDLC - agile, CruiseControl, Bamboo, Puppet, QlikView, webMethods Integration Platform 8.2/9.x, Web Methods Developer, AEM5.6.1, siteminder policy server R6.0 SP5 CR32. Protocols:  T3, T3S, Http, Https, Ftp, SOAP, LDAP, RMI/IIOP and TCP/IP. Database and DB Tools:  Oracle 10g, MS SQL Server 2005, TOAD, SQL Navigator, SQL Plus, MS Access, Oracle database 12 Case & Version Control:  Subversion, Clear Quest, JIRA, CVS, Perforce, Visual Source Safe. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Rockville, MD Sr. WebLogic/JBOSS Admin Responsibilities: Installed, configured, integrated, tuned and administered WebLogic 11g/12c, R1/Tomcat 6.0 in various environments viz. DEV, QA, UAT, PRE-PROD and PROD. Installing, configuring and administering a large number of clustered web application servers (JBoss Enterprise application Platform, JBoss EWS, Tomcat, Glassfish) hosted on RHEL/Windows platforms. Migrated 50 web applications running in Web logic platform to JBoss Platform. Slimming and fine tuning the Enterprise JBoss Application server image. Deployment of application on JBoss clusters. Installing latest fix packs and patches on this software’s on a regular/periodic basis. Creating CSR, Installation of SSL s on JBoss EWS. Setting up the Maven central repository using Artifactory. Administering Jenkins and Setting up Jenkins Master and Slave. Setting up Jenkins Jobs. Extensive experience with RedHat Linux 6.0 and Experience in WLST and Jython scripts for repeated WebLogic administration activities. Setting up the automation environment for Application team if necessary, and help them through the process of build and release automation. Java Virtual Machine tuning in JDK 1.4 - 1.7 including configuration and real time monitoring of heap/non-heap sizing and garbage collection methodology Installed and configured 2.2 by Apache web server using mod.jk. Set up cluster environment for WebLogic Server integrated with multiple workflows. Installation, configuring and tuning of Apache web servers in Linux environments. Carried out daily stand-up meetings, reviews, retrospectives, sprint and release planning, demos, and other Scrum-related meetings for three teams. Managed teams doing a combination of Kanban with daily Scrum for development and delivery of Java based code. Working in Business Process Integration, Service Orchestration and Routing usingMulesoft Merging of various customer portal projects into one Mulesoft domain code base Used JIRA tool for managing Scrum/Kanban, artifacts and team performance. Took responsibility of delivery and management of the tasks. Created Web Logic WLST scripts for automated deployments and start/stop of servers Experience in Web-based applications, SOA (Services Oriented Architectures) and Web application servers (WebLogic). Installed and Configured IBM Web sphere 6.0 in DEV, Test, PPE, PROD environments and provided support. Configured and Integrated IBM MQ 6 with WebLogic Application server for request center and provided support. Configured and worked with Apache SSL modules in the process of installing SSL s on to the Web and Application servers. Configured Apache 2.2 on different physical and virtual boxes in various environments to handle the static content. Configured Oracle OSB 11.1 in a Clustered Environment. For the GSI application and provided support. Configured Oracle OSB 11.1 as a proxy service for the JTA Transactions. Used SOA-Direct Transport with Oracle SOA suite 11g. Installed and configured OEM 11g and created business work flows and monitored the applications Created Dashboards in WILY Introscope and monitored JVM instances for J2EE applications. Worked as 24/7 Production analyst on a bi-weekly basis. Updated Shell scripts to monitor installed enterprise applications and to get information from the logs and database in the required format and other daily activities and jobs. Monitored enterprise eCommerce applications using Java Monitoring and Management Console (JMX). Updated Perl scripts for the automation of startup and shutdown process. Creating and raising the requests (CSR) and installing SSL on IIS servers for Dev/Test/Stage/Prod environments. Worked on migration from WebLogic 10.3.x to Web logic 12.1.x Provided Web Logic server instances into WebLogic clusters for high availability. Worked in WebLogic server and JBoss like JDBC, security, and install apache server configuration. Performed installing, configuring, administering and performance tuning clustered SOA environments. Worked with Big IP F5 Load Balancer administration, shell scripting for alerting and alarming on applications. ENVIRONMENT: Oracle Web Logic 10.3.6, Oracle SOA 10g/11g, OEM 11g, IIS5.x/6.x/7.x JBoss AS 7.0/6.0/5, TIBCO 5.10x, 5.1x, 4.9x Unix/Linux, GlassFish V3.1/4.x, Shell/Perl Scripting, webMethods Integration Platform 8.2/9.x, Web Methods Developer, SDLC Agile, Oracle11g RAC, puppet, Mulesoft, RHEL 5.x/6.x,AIX 5.3, V6.1, SiteMinder Policy Server R6.0 SP5 CR32, Siteminder Policy Server R12 SP3 CR09 Apache Server 2.2, Site minder, WLST. Confidential - Minneapolis, MN Sr. WebLogic/JBOSS Admin Responsibilities: Install, configure and administration of BEAWeb LogicApplication Server 9.2/10.3/11g, SOA suite, OSB, ESB on Linux, SUN Solaris 9.0/10.0 and Windows environment. Maintained BEAWeb LogicApplication Server 9.x/10.x/11g on different UNIX platforms and have setup development, testing and production environments for the ongoing application development. Worked on installation and configuration of Apache Web Server, Sun One IPlanet Web Server and IIS Web Server. Installed and Configured JBoss 6.2 on Dev, Test, and Prod Environments and Provided support. Provided Support to migrate from WebLogic server to JBoss. Involved in upgrade of JBoss 6.2 to JBoss 6.4 over 100 Servers. Performed JBoss server administration tasks like configuring both horizontal and vertical cluster environment, deploying applications, configuring JMS servers and JDBC data sources. Installation, configuration and administration of the clustered H/A environments in Development, Test, QA and Production. Coordinating with various departments/stakeholders ensuring theMulesoftproject technical specifications are in accordance with business requirements Extensively worked with automation tools like Hudson, Jenkins, Cruise Control, Cruise Control.Net, Build Forge and Bamboo to implement the automation and their configuration. Worked as Administration, maintenance, support and scaling of Application Servers (WebLogic, Tomcat etc). Installation, configuring and monitoring of JBoss 6.1 servers and integrated Sun One Web Server to work with the Application Server. Creation, configuration and administration ofWebLogicdomains and managed servers for internal and external clients JDBC and multi data-source connections with Oracle 10g and 11g databases. Developed processes, tools, automation for Jenkins and DevOps based software for build system and delivering SW Builds. Configured Distributed JMS servers, modules, queues and bridge connections. Involved in migration ofWebLogicServer 9.2 to 10.1 and also fromWebLogic10 mp1 to 11g. Participate in load test, analyze load test results, troubleshoot & address performance bottleneck of application, migrate application through various test, QA, UAT environment up to production. Performance tuning of JVM heap size, garbage collections, java stack and Native thread & production performance. Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments. Worked on Memory related issues, application leak orWebLogicleak or SUN java bug by tuning and profiling the memory with third party tools. Created Domain Templates to replicate the environment on new WebLogic/JBoss servers. Worked with WLST scripts and Shell Scripts to automate frequently done tasks like deployments. Experienced in analysis of thread dumps, core dumps, server hang and high CPU utilization conditions in WebLogic and JBoss. Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS Optimizing the memory usage by tuning Garbage Collection. Monitoring WebLogic/JBoss Server health and security. Analyzed Log files such as WebLogic/JBoss server logs, node manager logs, Plug-in logs and thread dumps for troubleshooting and Problem determination to resolve issues. Involved in assisting QA team in Load and Integration testing of J2EE applications on WebLogic/JBoss Application Servers. Deployed WARs, EARs usingWebLogicAdmin Console as well as running scripts. Provided WLST (Jython script) and configuring variousWebLogiccomponents/services via Jython script. Developed UNIX shell scripts on Linux and WLST scripts to start/stop admin and manage servers and to deploy different applications like .war or .ear files. Managing and installing patches, upgrades and enhancement on Middleware products. Monitoring hosts, servers, applications, domains, components, composites and transaction queues using OEM and Grid Control, and the memory and CPU usages using Jrockit Mission Control tool. Tuning servers and applications for better performance. Troubleshooting the emerging application issues, from server configuration to code issues. DesigningMulesoftintegration projects using recommended design patterns to achieve loose coupling, scalability, better performance, error-handling etc. Automated the Build Process using Jenkins. Managing incident, problem, change, release, configuration, service level, availability and capacity. Delivering an outstanding level of Middleware administration and 24/7 on-call support across all systems, ensuring that the systems meet or exceed their SLAs. Server Hang, Deadlock, application level lock, database level lock by taking thread dump and analyze to get the root cause for the hang. Web Server / Proxy Server Setup and Administration (Apache, Tomcat, iPlanet, Apache SSL, IBM WebSphere, etc.). Extensively work with global infrastructure engineering and support teams (OS, Network, Security, applications, databases and various endpoint-connections) and third party vendors for project and production support. Configured the web server interfaces, session management, virtual hosts and transports forWebLogic. 24X7 on-call production support and troubleshooting problems related to Middleware services. ENVIRONMENT: Oracle WebLogic 10.3.6, Oracle SOA 10g/11g, OEM 11g, IIS5.x/6.x/7.x, GlassFish V3.1/4.x, JBoss AS 7.0/6.0/5, TIBCO 5.10x, 5.1x, 4.9x Unix/Linux, Shell/Perl Scripting, Mulesoft, webMethods Integration Platform 8.2/9.x, Oracle11g RAC, puppet, RHEL 5.x/6.x,AIX 5.3, V6.1, SiteMinder Policy Server R6.0 SP5 CR32, Siteminder Policy Server R12 SP3 CR09 Apache Server 2.4, Site minder, WLST. Confidential, Dallas, TX Web Logic/JBoss admin Responsibilities: Performed Web Logic Server and JBoss administration tasks such as installing, configuring, monitoring and performance tuning. Performed J2EE enterprise application deployment and administration on WebLogic Server and JBoss, including JAR, WAR, and EAR files. Trimmed the JBoss EAP to create the slim version of Application Servers. Secured the JBoss application server. Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments and also create new jobs and branches through Jenkins. Managed Chef Cookbooks to automate system operations. AWS Cloud management and Chef Automation. Deployed built artifacts to WebLogic application server using MAVEN. Created Managed Servers in a Cluster with round-robin algorithm for Load Balancing. Mainly worked in presenting data using eBilling Reporting Module by configuring the report in the report XML Deployed the applications on multiple WebLogic Servers and maintained Load balancing, high availability and Fail over functionality. Guided the scrum team and organization on how to use Agile/Scrum practices and values to get the most business value. Worked with the Portal team to integrate Info View into Oracle WebLogic Portlet. Successfully carried out SiteMinder upgrade 6.0 sp5 to R12 sp3. Upgraded Siteminder Policy Server and Webagents to R12 sp3 cr1 following a four step procedure from compatibility mode to FIPS mode Involved in Performance tuning of WebLogic server with respect to heap, threads and connection pools. Configure Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control 10g/ Cloud Control 12c for centralized database management and monitoring. Oracle Enterprise manager 12 Cloud Control for monitoring. Configured Sun One Directory Server (LDAP) with WebSphere for system authentication Applying the fix packs and cumulative packs to the WebSphere 6.1/6.0/7.0 Worked on TAM (Tivoli Access Manager) which provides a modular authorization architecture that separates security code from application code. Installed and configured Apache and JBOSS Web Server. Analyze functional and business requirements for optimum utilization of AEM components and performance. Co-coordinating with batch processing & scripting to automate jobs in all the environments. Configured Authentication methods in IIS 6.0 to control access to the applications. Maintained scripts to ensure a secure IIS administration. Configured and administered of JDBC, JMS, JNDI, and SNMP in WebLogic Server 10.x. Trained and supported Linux engineers in the use of the company's Puppet infrastructure. Set up Web Logic domain with a single Server instance for developers on their windows machines. Installed and administered BigIP F5 load balancers to provide uninterrupted service to customers. Provided support for teams in activities such as Load testing, troubleshooting, and performance tuning. Performed Web Logic Portal Administration tasks as portal management, content management and user management. ENVIRONMENT: Oracle Web Logic 8.x/10.3.x, Web Logic Portal 10.3.5, JBoss 7.0/6.0/5.1, IIS 5.x/6.x/7.x TIBCO 5.10x, 5.1x,4.9x, Tomcat 5.x/6.x, OSB 11g, SOA Suite 11g, Oracle 10g/11g, Solaris 10, LINUX 5/6, AIX 5.3, V6.1, Sun ONE Directory Server 6, SunOne WebServer 6.0, GlassFish V3.1/4.x, webMethods Integration Platform 8.2/9.x,SDLC,agile, WebMethods Developer, puppet, Apache 2.2.x, Python, ANT, AWK, IIS, Netegrity SiteMinder Policy Server 5.5/6.0 Confidential, NYC Middleware Administrator Responsibilities: Performed Installation and Administration of BEA Weblogic 10/11g Migrating and Upgrading of Weblogic 9.2/10 server instances to Weblogic 10.3.4 Server. Performed Installation and Administration of Apache webserver  2.2.14/  2.2.19/2.2.20.   Migrating and Upgrading of Apache instances from 2.2.14 to  2.2.19/2.2.20.  Installed and Configured Site Minder. Performed Installation and Administration of Oracle SOA Suite 11.1.1.2 Deployed composite applications using EM console and ANT build scripts for SOA Suite 11g. Migrating Oracle HTTP Server Services to Apache. Installed and Configured LDAP server, Configured security providers. Wrote scripts for creating, configuring, starting Weblogic servers using WLST. Very good Knowledge and experience with ANT, Cruise Control, Maven. Setup and configured large Enterprise Weblogic Clusters utilizing BEA’s Weblogic 10 and 9.2 MP1, wrote scripts and Java utilities that determine the performance of the Staging and Production sites. Deployed the WAR, JAR and EAR applications in Weblogic 10/11g Responsible for application changes across different platforms- development, testing, staging and production environments. Developed several scripts using ksh and bash to automate jobs. ( Security audit scripts, password automation scripts, network stats, file storage, etc) Created Weblogic domains, managed servers, clusters, machines and start up scripts. Involved in the migration of the applications from tomcat 5.5 to WebLogic Server 10.3 Configured JDBC resources, data sources and bounded to the J2EE applications, configured the connection pools for the data sources. Created the Oracle Application server, JMS Server, JMS Connection Factories, Queues, Topics, Database Store and Message Bridges and monitored. Managing and Monitoring the JVM performance by Weblogic Heap Size, garbage collection, JDBC Pools and taking Thread dumps, pstack and prstat and analyzing to find the problems in application. Configured the Session Management i.e. Memory to Memory and Database replication on Weblogic Application server. Working knowledge of tools like IBM Rational ClearCase, which improves team productivity and efficiency Used oracle security middleware to control and access to data and to restrict the use of various database resources. Monitored Weblogic server resources using Wily 6.0 Introscope. ENVIRONMENT: WebLogic Server 8.1/9.x/10.x, Oracle SOA Suite 11g, OSB 11g,Jboss 6.0/5.1 Linux, SDLC - Agile, Design, AIX 5.3,V6.1, WLST, Sun Solaris, tier-3 application support, puppet, Oracle11g, Apache. Confidential Middleware administrator Responsibilities: Installing WebLogic 8.1 and applied Service Packs in different environments. Installation, configuration and administration of BEA WebLogic in clustered and non-clustered environments. Monitoring tools/scripts to get important information from all of department’s server’s operating system and application patch level, disk space and memory usage, user’s activities on day-to-day basis. Configuring individual servers for different environments. Deployed J2EE Web and EJB modules using WebLogic Command Line Deploy tool and WebLogic Admin Console. Worked in Java and programming in JavaScript, J2EE, JSR, JSF, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, RIDC. Used MVC design pattern with JSP, HTML for front-end and Servlets and EJBs for Model layer. Implemented Session Beans for implementing Business Logic and Entity Beans to persist the data into the database. Mainly worked in presenting data using eBilling reporting Module by configuring the report in the report XML. Used Java Message Service (JMS) for sending confirmations to the passengers about ticket purchases. Configured Database Support for WebLogic Application Server. Oracle Enterprise manager Cloud Control for monitoring. Used Ant Build scripts for compiling and deploying the application onto Apache Tomcat Web Container. Worked on Configuring JDBC Connection Pools, data sources, Executed Threads etc. Used various security roles for maintaining security realms in staging and production environments. Performed File system and Application backups. Responsible for the maintenance of the application, troubleshooting applications problems on client and server side. ENVIRONMENT: BEA WebLogic 8.0, IIS 5.0, Unix/Linux, Windows.NET/2000, Shell/Perl Scripting, Oracle8i, Apache Server 2.0, Site Minder. 