SUMMARY 6+ years of experience in IT industry with major focus on extensive experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements analysis, design specification, coding and testing of enterprise applications. Experience of Jenkins/ Hudson, VS Build Pro, Apache Ant, Apache Tomcat, Subversion, Git, Maven. Strong experience on DevOps essential tools like Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Kubernetes and Docker. Experience in scripting languages Ruby, Shell and Python. Experience in development and configuration experience with software provisioning tools like Chef, Puppet and Ansible. Worked on Cloud automation using AWS Cloud Formation templates. Implemented and maintained CI environments (Jenkins/Hudson) in performing deployments, Packaging, Build optimization, production rollouts, staging, defect tracking (JIRA), and root cause analysis, Smoke testing, Operation support and service delivery over web/app servers like Jboss, Tomcat and Web Logic. Experienced with Hashicorp tools like, Vault, Terraform and Consul Migrating the applications across environments such as DEV, QA/PERF and PROD. Automated AWS components like EC2 instances, Security groups, ELB, RDS, IAM through AWS Cloud Formation templates Providing 24X7 supports for the application on weekly schedule. Zero downtime and shortened deployment cycles via automated deployments. Participating in Application Disaster Recovery on Cloud based techniques. Experience with large - scale software implementation (high transaction volume, high-availability concepts) Responsible for maintaining the Infrastructure and Upgrades to deployment of new releases. Adept in drafting test reports, EMCcontrol plan, and manage multiple tasks Automating the Application by creating recipes with Chef, building cookbooks Installation, Performance Tuning, Support and Patching Linux RHEL/Suse, Microsoft Servers and virtualization such as VMware/Hyper-V/KVM/XEN/Virtual Box. Experience with Linux, server automation and scripting Writing Chef inspects and Server specs for the unit testing and integration testing EC2 instances, RDS instance - PostgreSQL &SQL, VPC, S3, IAM, Route53 and STS. Lambda scripts Wrote various monitoring and database analysis tools in Java, Perl and Bash. Worked on core java to automatically fix failed website orders. Strong understanding of and experience with Java, C/C, PHP, and .Net programming. Experience in shell scripting and Python. Experience in Networking configuration & Security Configuration on ESX Host. Experienced in installation and configuration of Apache Web server, Web Logic, and Tomcat. Expertise in utilizing GIT and Subversion as Version Control System. Responsible for recommending best practices, verifying standard architecture for NetApp controllers Used PACKER for AMI creation. Wrote Docker files for Docker images. Spun up Docker containers for environments. Used Kubernetes to deploy Docker containers. Administrating, troubleshooting and implementing MicrosoftExchange 2010/2016, office 365 (Hybrid). Excellent analytical, problem solving communication and interpersonal skills. Quick learning capability, delivering solutions as an individual and a good team player. Good understanding and exposure to Software Development Life Cycle. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Ewing, NJ  DevOps Infrastructure Automation Engineer Responsibilities: Our development environment included Git, Mac OS, Ruby 2.1.2, Atom, Ruby Mine as well as web interfaces for Atlassian Jira, Confluence. Public services included GitHub, CentOS, Ubuntu, Vagrant, Chef, Jenkins CI, Kubernetes, Ansible, Packer, Terraform, Cassandra DB and AWS, AZURE, OpenStack. ManagedKubernetescharts using Helm. Created reproducible builds of theKubernetes applications, managed Kubernetes manifest files and Managed releases of Helm packages. Managed local deployments inKubernetes, creating local cluster and deploying application containers. Develop PowerShell scripts and ARM templates to automate the provisioning and deployment process Container management usingDockerby writing Docker files and set up the automated build onDockerHUB and installed and configured Kubernetes. Building/MaintainingDockercontainer clusters managed byKubernetes, Linux, Bash, GIT,Docker, on AWS. UtilizedKubernetesandDockerfor the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploy. Created Hashicorp vault server and pulled secrets automatically while the time of provisioning with Terraform. Posting secrets to Vault server from local with API’s Experienced Hashicorp Consul to connect applications across server in micro services like Kubernetes for Service discovery, Health checking, key value storage, Mutli-Datacenter and Service Segmentation. Deployed OpenStack Newton version in a Multi node with High availability. Experience in Deploying and Configuring the various OpenStack components keystone, glance, neutron, cinder and swift, Heat and ceilometer. Creating and Managing multiple projects and assigning users, roles and responsibilities in a cloud. Manage and Troubleshoot OpenStack components like Neutron, Cinder, Glance, Nova and Swift including log files and message queues Creating Neutron Networks and floating IP's for applications using OpenStack Neutron. Experience in writingchefcookbooksand recipes to automate middleware installations, domain creations and deployment activities. Knowledge and expertise on all aspects ofChefconcepts likechefserver, workstations, Nodes,chefclients and various components like push jobs, super market etc. Involved in Proof of concept/value for developing Standalone command-line applications using GO Language Migrating the applications across environments such as DEV, QA/PERF and PROD. Executed functional test scripts for OpenStack and tested OpenStack core services like nova, neutron, Cinder and Swift Storages. Experience in writing Automation scripts using Shell and Python. Infrastructure automation and configuration management via Ansible and Puppet. Implemented multi-tier application provisioning in OpenStack cloud, integrating it with Ansible. Worked on design and implementing remote replication using NetApp Snap Mirror. Used GO language to test the system-level programming Tested the Garbage collection functionality and how it works in the GO Language compared to Java Virtual machines Administrating & troubleshooting experience in Managing and maintainingMicrosoftWindows sever 2003/2008/2012, Windows clustering, troubleshooting DNS, DHCP, DFS, sever builds and decommission, sever security hardening and patching. Automated AWS components like EC2 instances, Security groups, ELB, RDS, IAM through AWS Cloud Formation templates Providing 24X7 support for the application on weekly schedule. Participating in Application Disaster Recovery on Cloud based techniques. Experience with large-scale software implementation (high transaction volume, high-availability concepts) Responsible for maintaining the Infrastructure and Upgrades to deployment of new releases. Automating the Application by creating recipes with Chef, building cookbooks Experience with Linux, server automation and scripting Writing Chef inspects and Server specs for the unit testing and integration testing EC2 instances, RDS instance - PostgreSQL &SQL, VPC, S3, IAM, Route53 and STS. Lambda scripts Experience working with IAM in order to create new accounts, roles, and groups. AMI’s are rehydrated and Access Keys are rotated every 60 days. Performed EMCtesting in accordance with industry standards using recognized applicable instrumentation, LISNs, antennas, amplifiers and other RF equipment. Monitoring large scale applications using New Relic and telegrafinfluxdb and grafana. Experience in debugging of Splunk and created various dashboard in splunk. Experience in running database queries on both SQL and PostgreSQL. Creating Change Orders and tickets and in HP Service Manager(HPSM) to perform changes and issues related to production Virtualizing the servers using docker for the test environments and dev environments also configuration automation using docker containers. Performance troubleshooting utilizing sysstat, collecting perfstats and packet trace from NetApp Clusters. Responsible for installation and configuration of Jenkins to support Java builds and Jenkins Plugins to automate continuous builds and publishing Docker images to Nexus Repository. Container Management using docker by writing Docker files and setup automated build on Docker Hub. Experience maintaining Continuous Integration (CI) environments with build automation tools like Jenkins and automated Master-Slave Configuration like temporary slaves. Manage backup and restore process for Jenkins workflows for different teams. Automating CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins and setting up Email notification on build status. Utilize Cloud Watch to monitor resources such as EC2, CPU memory, Amazon RDS DB Services Working with ruby, shell, Groovy and python scripts for infrastructure automation Implement continuous integration and continuous delivery pipeline with Jenkins. Manage backup and restore process for Jenkins workflows for different teams Provision and Configure Kubernetes orchestration platform on AWS. Automation of elastic container registry provisioning during build on AWS Used PACKER for AMI creation that has ec2,Jenkins,ansible,docker in the AMI. Provisioning Cassandra DB cluster on AWS EC2 and ELB with automated terraform scripts Detect and respond to issues affecting availability or performance of the Infrastructure Configure AWS elastic load balancer for routing the traffic to ec2/ecs resources Manage Jenkins workflows for internal teams Implementation, Support and maintenance and monitoring of cloud based infrastructure using various devops tools and technologies such as AWS, OpenStack, Linux, Git, Jenkins, Kubernetes, Ansible, Cassandra Vault and others. Confidential, Norfolk, VA DevOps / Linux Administrator Responsibilities: Working for DevOps Platform team responsible for specialization areas related to Puppet for Cloud Automation. Excellent configuration management using Puppet. ImplementedPuppetmodules to automate configuration of a broad range of services Worked with Nagios x1 installation and configuration. Worked with Nagios dashboard to monitor servers and monitor applications. Setup AWS infrastructure using Terraform. Create Docker Containers using Terraform Scripts. Worked on creating Windows instances with Azure. Worked on deploying WebEx application in Azure. Actively involved in architecture of DevOps platform and cloud solutions. Build Automation and Build Pipe Development using Jenkins and Maven Integration of Automated Build with Deployment Pipeline. Currently installed Puppet Server and clients to pick up the Build from Jenkins repository and deploy in target environments (Integration, QA, and Production). Maintaining a farm of EC2 instances, ELB’s and RDS. Installed and configured WebSphere application servers. Deployed java-based application in WebSphere application servers. Migrate on premise database to AWS Cloud and also designed, built, and deployed a multitude application utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, R53, S3, RDS, SNS, and IAM), by focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling. Understanding of EMI/EMCrelated technology and preparing the lab according to their requirements. Configure EC2 Instances, VPC, Route 53, ELB, Subnets, etc. Configure and administer Apache and Application layers Configure HTTP caching properties for static caching. Experience with shell scripting. Worked on SIEM for security and audit compliance configuration Worked on version control using GitHub. Worked on automating builds using Jenkins. Experience with AWS SDK and AWS API. Automate infrastructure in AWS using amazon web services. Installing and configuring Tomcat and JBOSS. Deploy puppet to completely provision and manage AWS EC2 instances, volumes, DNS, and S3. Performed installation, configuration and tuning of Red hat, CentOS, Solaris. Confidential Linux Admin / DevOps Engineer Responsibilities: Worked on Installation and Configuration of Linux and CentOS; Maintenance and Administration Installed and configured Linux/Unix and Windows operating systems on VMware server. Wrote shell scripts using languages like Bash, Python to automate day to day administration jobs. Configured LDAP Server and LDAP Client on Linuxmachines for authorization and authentication. Proficient in installation and configuration of various Packages and Patches in Linux utilizing Red Hat Satellite Server. Experience in Ansible configuration management. Experience managing systems with Ansible, including creation of custom roles and playbooks. Build Automation and Build Pipe Development using Jenkins and Maven. Rebuilt Microsoft Exchange Server; restored 1800 email accounts from backup and verified data integrity with end users. Migrated data between NetApp filers. Worked on building and deploying Java code through Jenkins Collaborated with development team to troubleshoot and resolve issues. Documented project's softwarereleasemanagement procedures with input decisions. Deployed the static content to apache web servers and applications to Tomcat Application. Used JIRA as a Change Management/ Work Management/ SCRUM Agile Tool. Build, configured and support Application team environments. Established processes and tools to maintain code base integrity, including check-in validation rules and branch/merge processes. Spearheaded unit testing of developer code; collaborated effectively with local / offshore teams and users to ensure code met client requirements and achieved targets for application functionality, stability, and availability. Administration of RHEL 5/6 that includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading and loading patches, troubleshooting both physical and virtual server issues. Worked on creating, cloning Linux virtual Machines, templates using VMware Virtual Client 3.5 and migrating servers between ESX hosts. Installed and managed Red Hat Linux using Kickstart and applying security policies for hardening the server based on the company policies. Administered package installation, configuration of CentOS 5/6. Created disk groups, volume groups and RAIDs using Veritas Volume Manager. Installed and configured MySQL on Linux Server for test and development environment. RPM and YUM package installations, patch and other server management. Created new file systems, monitoring disk usage, checking and backup of log files administration and monitoring the disk based file system. Configured multipath, adding SAN and creating physical volumes, volume groups and logical volumes. Installed and configured Apache and supporting them on Linux production servers. Performed Kernel compilation and patch upgradation on Linux servers. Worked on troubleshooting Linux network, security related issues, capturing packets using tools such as iptables, firewall, TCP wrappers and NMAP. Developed automated processes that run daily to check disk usage and perform cleanup of file systems using shell scripting and Crontabs. Hands on experience on creating and managing Users / Group accounts and setup a user's work environment.