SUMMARY As a Front - end UI developer wif 5+ years of experience in developing pixel perfect websites. Performance driven, motivated and willing to ‘walk teh extra mile’ to achieve goals. Flexible to work in any work environments having worked wif and fortune 500 companies. Worked wif scrum and agile methodologies. Received best performer award multiple times. Collaborated wif design and development teams on execution of ideas and projects. Building state-of-teh-art, easy to use, user-friendly websites and applications is truly a passion of mine. Very Strong in developing applications using HTML5, CSS3/SASS/LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Node JS, Angular 2, NodeJS, Typescript, Grunt, Gulp Twitter Bootstrap and Ajax and Web Accessibility (WCAG 2.0, Section 508, ADA) dat follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible. Good Experience using Bootstrap for Responsive Web Design (RWD) and CSS media Queries. Expertise in development of web-based applications using NodeJS, HTML, XML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and jQuery, Worked wif Adaptive web designing and developed CSS Media Queries to make teh application compatible wif iPad (Landscape and Portrait) and PC. Worked in a team, and involved in developing teh UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) from wireframes. Worked on MVC Frameworks like Bootstrap, Angular.JS Experience in using Angular JS for SPA development. Experienced in using directives, filters in Angular JS applications. Good understanding of Angular features like Two-way data binding, Dependency Injection in teh application. Made AJAX requests wif teh help of $http service in angular. Good use of DOM Manipulation, CSS manipulation in teh code wif teh help of jQuery. Experience wif Firebug for Mozilla, Developer Toolbar for Chrome and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer. Developed native mobile applications using teh iOS and Android SDKs and Windows mobile. Designed, developed and supported HTML 5-based applications, predominantly for use mobile devices on. Responsible for checking Cross Browser Compatibility of different elements and tags hence worked on different browsers like Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Firefox, Opera, and Safari. Converted wireframes and Photoshop documents into functional CSS2, CSS3, HTML4, HTML5 and JavaScript code. Experience on working wif CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, and CSS Table. Good Knowledge in using ARIA (Accessible Rich Internet Applications). Followed Material.io design specifications while creating teh webpages. Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications. Proficient in Analyzing existing software (web and mobile) for Accessibility issues and worked wif designers to define and implemented solutions. Expertise in using source code control systems such as SVN and GIT. Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) wif JavaScript. Expert in documentation using MS tools (Word, Excel, PPT, Project, Visio, and Access). Known for ability to multi-task and work on different applications at teh same time. Experience in all stages of testing namely Functional testing, Performance testing, Integration testing, Regression testing and User Acceptance testing. Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) wif JavaScript. Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions. Possess excellent communication and Problem-Solving skills and teh ability to work as a team member, as well as independent. Expertise in coding optimized SQL queries on databases like MySQL. Trained end users and coordinated during UAT testing. Great ability to write clearly, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development. TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, JSP, XHTML, XML, XSLT, XML Schemas, DHTML, AngularJS, Angular2/4, NodeJS and Bootstrap, Kendo UI, Ionic (mobile app framework), NodeJS Servers: WebSphere, Web logic, Apache Database: IBM DB2, SQL Server 2008, ORACLE 10/11g, MySQL Development Tools: Sublime Text, Notepad++, Eclipse, Visual Studio Version Control: ClearCase, SVN, GitHub Programming Languages: C, C++, VB and Core Java PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Front-end web developer Confidential, Columbus, OH Responsibilities: Involved in discussions wif client on teh requirements gathering, analysis, designing till teh design approval. Worked wif Business Analysts and Project Managers to drive out requirements and implemented an elegant solution to teh task at hand. Used JavaScript, Angular2/4, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 for front-end development. Developed user interfaces using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. Developed various modules using Node JS to perform periodical jobs, Data Persistence required for analytics. Developed common CSS classes for teh user interface using CSS and CSS3. Created various Web based enterprise level applications using Node JS and Angular JS frame works. Developed single page applications (SPA) using Angular2. Created Scripts using Node JS for implementing business algorithms and Data processing on MongoDB. Used Bootstrap Media Queries and Grid System to create Responsive web pages (RWD) for desktops, laptops, smartphones and mobiles. Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular2 including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters. Used teh latest HTML5 elements for video playback, content rendering using semantic tags such as article, section etc. Fetched data from database into JSON or XML format files and retrieve useful information using AJAX calls to display them on teh browser. Involved in writing application level code to interact wif APIs, RESTFUL Web Services using AJAX and JSON. Extensively used Node JS Handling User Requests, Passing JSON Data using Routes Created AJAX calls using Angular4 to handle data operations including ordering & filtering. Extensively used JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications. Used Jquery and CSS selectors, toggles, and hover functionality. Expertise in analyzing teh DOM Layout, Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar. Developed CSS LESS and SASS styles on all teh pages of an application and positioning of objects. Used Angular2framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (Controllers) and model values. Used GRUNT commands for building and deploying teh project. Used Bower for successfully implementing teh dependencies. Performed unit testing using Jasmine along wif integration testing Chrome Inspector to fix bugs and worked closely wif QAteam. Responsible for maintaining versions of source code using SVN and GitHub,GitLab. Followed Agile Software Development Methodology in teh progress of teh project. Involved in Troubleshooting and Debugging of teh application wifin Stipulated time. Created automated Unit test plans and Performed Unit testing modules according to teh requirements and development standards. Trained end users and coordinated during UAT testing. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Jquery, Angular2/4, NodeJS, AJAX, JSON, XML, REST Web services, DHTML, DOM, LESS, SASS, GRUNT, Jasmine, SVN, GitHub, GitLab, XML UI Developer Confidential, Plano, TX Responsibilities: Involved in developing user interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XHTML, jQuery, AJAX, JSON. Developed web pages wif functionalities like login, register, forget password, Email, Filters using JavaScript and HTML5. Used JavaScript to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time in web pages to get user input and requests. Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens and used HTML5 to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request. Worked wif Asp.net Master Pages dat are common throughout teh application and content pages Involved in UI design and development using ASP.NET MVC, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Angular JS. Used a factory service to consistently communicate wifin controllers created in teh API. Created a Web API to allow my website to access information stored in my database Used CORS to allow cross domain access between API and MVC application. Implemented LINQ queries to give access to my SQL database for CRUD functionality. Debugged and enhanced C# ASP.NET applications Designed, developed and updated User Interface Web Forms using CSS, Dreamweaver and JavaScript. Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular js. Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, created HTML navigation menu. Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix teh bugs pertaining to various browsers. Implemented teh SEO Techniques to improve teh search results on teh web. Worked closely wif Photoshop designers to implement mock-ups and teh layouts of teh application. Used CSS Sprites to decrease teh number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages. Worked closely wif team members to meet teh client requirements. Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, AngularJS, Eclipse, MS Office, Bootstrap, Dreamweaver CS5, XHTML, jQuery. UI Web Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Ability to rapidly prototype interface designs in hand-coded validating, standards-compliant, and semantically rich code and be aware of cross-browser compatibility and bugs. Developed front end for teh entire website using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript. Recommended and currently guiding teh team in building out a lean, responsive UI layer utilizing Semantic HTML5, SASS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, and REST API architecture. Thorough understanding of teh differences and bugs in various browsers and browser versions. Understanding of application development lifecycle methodologies. Knowledge of human factors and usability, best practices for interface design. Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working wifin cross-functional teams. Excellent problem-solving skills and teh ability to work independently. Deep understanding of JavaScript and teh jQuery & NodeJS framework. Used AngularJS in developing single page applications. Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS. Involved in write application level code to interact wif APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML. Designed and developed intranet web applications using JSP, JavaScript and CSS. Implemented and designed user interface for web-based customer application. Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS based on teh W3C standards. Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed teh bugs for several browsers. Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Environment: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Kendo UI, JQUERY, JSP, AJAX, JSON, XML, PHP, TOMCAT APACHE, ECLIPSE, JBOSS and SVN. 