TECHNICAL SKILLS Native Speaker, Hebrew Adobe Illustrator CC Adobe Photoshop CC Adobe InDesign CC Adobe Premiere Pro CC Adobe Dreamweaver CC Adobe Lightroom CC Adobe Bridge CC Constant Contact Semrush BigCommerce DacEasy InVision Microsoft Office Programs User Experience Design Photography HTML/HTMLX/HTML5 CSS3 Javascript/jQuery/AJAX/JSON PHP 5 - 7.0 Bootstrap 3&4 WordPress Web Hosting & Optimization Google Analytics Google Tag Manager Social Media Marketing Artistic experimentation Acrylic Painting Dog Lover Former Gymnast Yoga & Pilates Enthusiast Loves learning and eating food from new and diverse cultures. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE UX UI Designer Confidential, Santa Clara, CA Responsibilities: Utilize the latest design trends for visuals while maintaining the company brand Use Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign to design, create, and manage projects for print and online for various marketing content such as writing hand-coded HT email. Draft, distribute, and pitch new product descriptions and technical writings. Website administration, maintenance, content publishing and SEO campaigning Handling online listings, pricings, design, and functions of the ecommerce site. Analyze and create monthly data reports through various analyses tools. Use HTML, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, jQuery and other coding languages to improv the company profile website. Convert PSD to HTML to create new site pages Volunteer Website Design/Developer Expert Confidential, San Francisco Bay Area, CA Responsibilities: Redesign the WordPress with a new updated theme Customize plugin with Html, Javascript, and AJAX. Solve any problems or issues that come up on the site. Clean up visual designs to optimize and enhance the website. Marketing Associate/Intern Confidential, Los Altos, CA Responsibilities: Use illustrator to create client ‘How to’ booklets and forms. Created visual advertisement for print ads to Social media posts. Aided in any Computer problems and worked on postings on company websites