SUMMARY Over 5+ years of experience in designing, developing, analyzing, deploying and maintaining Enterprise level iOS applications. Strong noledge of design patterns, methodologies and execution of Swift programming language and several frameworks. Strong noledge in implementing core Apple frameworks. Experience in making URLSessions, JSONSerialization, NSUserdefaults, Multi - Threading, Core Data and SQLite in various iOSapp projects. Experience in using Protocols, Delegates, Closures & Auto Layouts. Worked wif Cocoa Pods to integrate frameworks into application and communicate wif databases. Comfortable designing intuitive and human friendly interfaces, by utilizing Interface Builder, Storyboards and dynamically generated UI elements. Expertise in debugging software applications using built in functionalities in Xcode. Proficient in version control systems such as git and tools such as GitHub, Source Tree, Bit Bucket. Strong analytical, logical and programming skills, Self-Motivated and Team Player, can work wif minimal supervision. TEMPEffective Communication, Organizational and Time management skills. Experience wif Jenkins. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: Swift, Objective-C, Java, C++ Data Modelling Languages: XML, JSON, SOAP Databases: SQLite, MySQL, NoSQL Version Controls: git, Source Tree, Bit Bucket, GITDesktop. Frameworks & SDKs: UI, UIKit, UIFoundation, Store Kit, Core Data, Core Location, MapKit, UIAnimation, Alamo Fire, Google, Facebook, Twilio PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Iselin, NJ iOS Developer Responsibilities: Worked on a team which handles the feature for depositing checks from wifin the app. Worked on Location Services to display locations using Core Location and MapKit frameworks using map Annotations and Accessory types via paired programming. Worked on implementation of Operation Queue to fetch and display details and user attributes. Used Tesseract OCR iOS framework for reading text from checks. Captured user data on local device for persistent storage wif efficient algorithms and data structures. Utilized JSONSerialization for decoding JSON Response. to generate API calls for data retrieval and parsed the JSON data to Dictionaries and Arrays using RESTful web services and displayed it in respective views. Improved the application efficiency wif multi-threading using GCD for displaying information. Maintained the project files using git version controlling system. Worked in an Agile Environment participating in Scrum meetings. JIRA was used for tracking and assigning of tasks and continuous integration handled wif Jenkins. Environment: Swift, Xcode, Collection View, JSON, Core Data, Operation Queue, Cocoa Pods, Agile, MapKit, Core Location, Navigation Bar, Cocoa Touch Frameworks, git, Jira, Jenkins. Confidential, New York iOS Developer Responsibilities: Worked extensively wif Swift and Cocoa Touch Frameworks on Multiview Applications, customizing Table View Controllers, Table View Cells and Navigation Bars. Used Storyboards, and XIB files in the project to integrate the UI of the application wif Auto-Layout Constraints. Used Clean Swift VIPER Architecture to build dis project. Worked on TabBar Controller, NavigationControllers, CollectionView, UIPageController, Table Views and Core Data to display the data according to the requirements. Implemented Dispatch Queues to perform synchronous operations for tasks which would otherwise be async. Ensured universal user experience across app interface by managing internal resources and manipulating behavior and appearance. Implemented Re-usable views and XIB’s. Implemented Helper classes, models and extensions for various Interface Builder elements to reuse the code. Implemented Reachability module using Cocoa Pods Made a REST API Call to fetch the data from the backend. Worked on Core Data framework to store data using NSManagedObjects by using perform fetch method. Implemented Crashlytics and Splunkmint for capturing the bugs or crashes. Maintained the workspace using git version controlling system. Worked in an Agile Environment participating in Scrum meeting. Used Jira for tracking and assigning of tasks and continuous integration CI/CD handled wif Jenkins. Environment: Swift, JSON, Viper, Core Data, Adobe Analytics, XCTests, XCUITests, Auth0, Operation Queue, Cocoa Pods, Agile, REST, JSONSerialization, User Notifications, Cocoa Touch Frameworks, GitHub, Jira. Confidential iOS Developer Responsibilities: Worked extensively wif Objective-C and Cocoa frameworks including Core Data, Foundation, Core Animation and UIKit. Worked extensively on customized TableViewCell, UIViews to design login page. Extensively used autantication API for authorizing users & maintain session. Used Core Data framework for local storage purpose in SQLite. Integrated various RESTful Web services call to application using asynchronous calls for background downloading and updating of local DB. Integrated third party APIs using Cocoa Pods. Worked in an Agile Scrum environment, followed Agile Methodology in developing the enterprise application. Environment: Objective-C, Xcode, Cocoa Frameworks, Core Data, UIKit, NSFileManager, Cocoa Pods, Agile Methodology. Confidential iOS DEVELOPER Responsibilities: Worked extensively wif Objective C and Cocoa frameworks including Core Data, Foundation, Core Animation and UIKit. Participated in a team that translated requirement analysis into business logic. Worked wif Collection View Controllers on Shows screen to display various channel sources. Worked wif Payment Processing libraries to design solutions for faster and streamlined operations as per client requirements. Implemented Segue Navigation through Navigation Controllers wif variety of components across the app flow dynamically loading up on the screen depending on the current state of the user. Developed using best practices in MVC architecture, wif clear distinctions in role and implementation. Resolved bugs and improved app performance by using Breakpoints, Assertions and aggressive code reviews. Fabricated several UI elements by adding constraints to existing Storyboard Layouts and ensure human interface guidelines were being followed. Project managed using Agile Methodology participating in Scrum meetings. Environment: Xcode, Objective-C, Cocoa Frameworks, Core Data, Foundation, Core Animation, UIKit, JSONSerialization, MVC, Payment Processing, Agile, Auto-Layouts 