OBJECTIVE To obtain a challenging position in a progressive, fast paced environment as a Performance Tester and best utilize technological skills and experience in a professional environment and to be in touch wif the latest technologies. SUMMARY Around 6 years of experience in Performance test Engineering using Load Runner, JMeter, Wily Introscope and App Dynamics. Experience in evaluating and recommending Performance Test tools based on Project requirements. Well - versed wif all stages of Performance Testing Life Cycle (PTLC). Hands on experience on all performance testing project activities including NFR (Non-Functional requirement) gathering, planning, designing scripts and creating test data, executing load tests and reporting observations. Good knowledge on creating Test Scripts, Test Scenarios and executions the same. Well-versed wif End to End Performance Testing activities. Prepared Performance Test Plan document. Extensive experience in Web (HTTP/HTML) protocol along wif Web services,, True client, Ajax click and script Has a thorough understanding of Test/Image Checks, Rendezvous Points, Parameterization, Error Handling, Run time settings, recording Options and manual Correlation (capturing dynamic values). Experience wif Performance Testing Script Preparation using Vu-Gen (Virtual User Generator). Involved in different types of Performance Tests Execution like Load Test, Stress Test, Soak Test / Endurance Test and Scalability Test. Configured and Executed Test Scenarios in LR Controller using scripts created in VuGen (Virtual User Generator). Execution of Load Runner scripts using HP Load Runner by defining Ramp-up, steady state and Ramp-down of virtual users to generate the results of as the real-time scenario. Monitored different graphs like Transaction Response Time and Analyzed Server Performance Status, Hits per Second, Throughput, Windows Resources and Database Server Resources etc. Prepared Performance Test Reports as per the organization standards. Installed Load Runner software including LR Controller software and Load Generators etc. Good experience in handling and working wif different customers/ vendors/ stakeholders in different geographies and value-added wif innovative ideas in Performance Testing. Experience in debugging performance issues and assist the engineering team in isolating and resolving performance issues in the application and its corresponding layers. Co-ordinate wif Team members to achieve project objectives and goals. Experience of working in under pressure wif strict deadlines projects. Experienced in working in a diverse, fast paced environment wif ability to lead wif style and follow wif reliability. TECHNICAL SKILLS Testing tool: HP Load Runner 12.55,12.5,12.1,11.5,9.5, Performance Center, HP-ALM Quality Center, QTP Languages: C, C++, Objective-C, HTML, XML Monitoring tools: Site Scope, Wily Introscope, Dynatrace Load Runner Protocols: Web (HTTP\HTML), Web Services, True client, Ajax click and script Web/App Servers: Web Logic, ESB Browsers: Mozilla Fire Fox, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer Databases: Oracle, MS Access, DB2 Operating Systems,: MS-DOS, WINDOWS 10,8,7,XP Defect Tracking Tools: HP-ALM Quality Center, JIRA Methodologies: Agile and Waterfall PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Wilmington DE Performance Tester Responsibilities: Design test cases using the test design specifications and use cases described in test plan. Developed and executed Scripts for Performance Testing using Load runner. Enhanced the scripts by adding checkpoints web find and web image check, functions in C Language, transactions, rendezvous point lr rendezvous, created parameters, and performed manual correlation web reg save param to enhance recorded scripts. Worked on Run Time Settings and checkpoints. Created Manual and Goal oriented scenarios wif certain amount of Vusers giving Ramp up and Ramp Down. Analyzed the test results for the performancemetrics involved in the test run like Web resources,Windows resources by Site Scope. Analyzed test results using different profiling tools like DynaTrace. Used DynaTrace Reports to identify performance bottlenecks like CPU utilization, memory utilization and disk usage. Conducted baseline, load, stress and endurance testing on application workflows to identify and report performance bottlenecks. Analyzed the Load Runner reports to calculate Response time and Transactions per minute, Hits per sec, throughput. Developed various reports and metrics to measure and track testing effort. Used HP-ALM Quality Center for bug tracking and reporting, also followed up wif the development team to verify bug fixes and update bug status. Attended change requests meetings and made subsequent changes in the test. Worked closely wif developers and updated them wif the load tests results. Participated in weekly status meetings, and conducted walkthroughs for team members, and documented the proceedings. Environment: Load Runner, HP-ALM Quality Center, C Script, Oracle, SiteScope, DynaTrace HTTP/HTML, SOAP and Performance Center. Confidential, Hoffman Estates, IL Performance Tester Responsibilities: DevelopedPerformanceTest Plan, Test Cases and VuGen scripts for theload&Performance testing to perform testing at differentloadlevels. Designedperformancetest suites by creating VUGen test scripts, workload scenarios, setting transactions, rendezvous points (lr rendezvous) and inserting them into suites usingLoadRunner. Developed Load Runner scripts by using Virtual User generator and enhanced the scripts by parameterization, manual correlations based on the scenario. Wrote application specific functions using C language to add logic to load testing scripts. Used manual Correlation (web reg save param), Parameterization and Content Check features. Configuring Run-time settings for VuGen and Controller. Created different scenarios like Load test, Stress test, Volume test, Performanceregression test etc. to find out the bottlenecks and improving the quality of performancetesting. Inserted Rendezvous point to create intenseloadon the server to measure the serverperformance underload. Analyzed results of Transactions Response time, Transaction Summary by Vusers, Hit per Second, Throughput and merged graphs using LR Analysis tool. Prepared detailed test reports and summary report highlighting the different load tests conducted and the performance achievement made from the engagement. Closely worked wif development team and guided them in finding and fixing the performance defects. Defect tracking and reporting using JIRA. Actively participated in the daily project meetings and walkthroughs. Attending conference calls wif offshore team to discuss the Testing status and to assign the defects to the concerned developers. Environment: Load Runner, C scripting, SiteScope, Windows, PerformanceCenter, JIRA, HTTP/HTML, Wily Introscope, Web logic Confidential, Chevy Chase, MD Performance Tester Responsibilities: Developed test cases and test scripts. Conducted performance testing of the application using Load Runner. Planned and prepared test scripts according to requirements. Coordinated wif internal teams to ensure that test environment, test data, codes, backend systems are available to support necessary test requirements. Parameterized the fixed values in checkpoint statements, created data tables for the parameters and used functions for the parameters to read new data from the table upon each iteration - Performed Data-driven testing. Used manual correlation for dynamic values using web reg save param. Performed Load, Stress and Volume testing, scenario creation and execution. Preparation and execution of test scripts using JMeter and SOAP UI tool to perform web Services testing. Measured Throughput, Hits per second, Response time, and Transaction time using Load Runner. Used Database and Text checkpoints for validations. Generated reports using Load Runner. Submitted test results, weekly status reports and test summaries to the team lead and project manager. Responsible for keeping up wif the test schedule and interacting wif software engineers to ensure clear communications on requirements and defect reports. Attended change requests meetings and made subsequent changes in the tests and scripts. Worked closely wif developers and updated them wif the load tests results. Participated in weekly status meetings, and conducted walkthroughs for team members, and documented the proceedings. Environment: HP Interactive, Performance Center, Load Runner, JMeter, Oracle, VC++, VBScript, .NET, HTML, Web Logic, XML, UNIX and Windows Confidential, Minneapolis-MN Performance Tester Responsibilities: Technical Responsibilities included planning, scripting, data setup, test execution and reporting. Designed the scripts using Load Runner VU-Gen. Directed the settings of scripts as per the requirements of individual project for several projects. Performed Baseline, Duration, Stress, Load and Regression tests. Designed test scenarios to test load for high volume transactions and business critical transactions using Controller. Generated test summary reports. Involved in analyzing the results and participated in performance results review meetings. Helped implement best practices and set higher coding standards for Performance Test Scripts. Helped project teams in recognizing possible bottlenecks and potential trouble spots. Analyzed root causes of performance issues and provided corrective measures. Provided support in all the phases of project design, development and deployment. Environment: Net, C++, QTP, Test Director, Load Runner, Oracle, Test Track and Microsoft Office Suite 