SUMMARY Having 9+ years of ITExperience including 5+ years of salesforce full life cycle (SDLC) implementation experience as Salesforce Developer and Salesforce administrator.Have good working knowledge in querying salesforce.com and having experience in health pharma and service and sales cloud database using SOQL & SOSL queries using Force.com Explorer. Strong experience working with Apex classes, Triggers, Controllers and Controller Extensions. Experience in implementing Salesforce Custom objects, Custom fields, Junction objects, Master - Detail relationships and Look-Up relationships. Experience in design of Dashboards, data binding and various other components as per the client and application requirements and awareness of the governor limits for a multi-tenant environment. Worked on REST API integrations. Involved in Data Integration and Migration by using Force.com data loaders, web based import wizards and Informatica cloud and Jitter bit. Personally exploring Salesforce Lightning app builder which enhances UI and drag and drop app building and good knowledge in Aura Application. Built interactive wizard-like and Custom GUI using Visualforce page and also coded server-side apex scripts (Controllers, helper classes and triggers) implementing complex business rules for multiple users and profiles provided with documentation. Sound Knowledge on Agent console & customizable layouts, Analytics snapshots, Asset management & product tracking, Auto-suggested solutions. Experience with Case auto-assignment, Case email auto-response, Case escalation rules & queues, Case management and history tracking, Case team collaboration and Console Customization. Implemented security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Expert in Query language using SOQL and SOSL statements. Experience in Data Migration using Data Loader Import Wizard and schedule the batch using Jitter Bit. Strong Experience in Code Migration using Force.com IDE, Change sets and using ANT also. . Expert in SFDC Administrative skills like creating Profiles, Roles, OWD, Users, Relationships, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks and Events. Extensive experience of using declarative features like Validation rules, for satisfying complex business process automations. Worked extensively on Siebel tools configuration to implement Siebel Applications. Worked extensively in Configuring Business Components, Business Objects, Screens, Views, Applets, MVGs, Pick lists, Links and Joins. Workflow Policies, Runtime events, Script, User Properties, Business Services and RCR’s. Hands on experience in Inbound and Outbound web services Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks and Events. Experience in Salesforce Testing and Administration spanning all facets of package software and SaaS application implementation. Experience in bulk data migration from Excel, MS outlook and Legacy Systems to Salesforce.com using Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard. Maintained the functional areas of Data management, Sales forecasting, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Dashboards and Reports. Well versed in cloud computing and on premise infrastructure integration for Salesforce.com using Force.com platform, Batch Apex, Web Services with third party applications. Experience in working with databases such as Oracle, MySQL, and DB2 and have sound knowledge in creating Tables, Views and writing DDL, DML SQL queries. Knowledge in Bit bucket and how to push the code in Bit Bucket using Source tree and using command line also. Hands on experience in designing and developing dynamic web content using HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript and other web development technologies. Expertise in Server side programming/development using Java, JSP, Servlets, and XML and deploying in application servers Jboss and WebLogic. TECHNICAL SKILLS CRM Tools:  Salesforce.com Salesforce Technologies:  Salesforce CRM, Apex, Triggers, Apex Classes/ Controllers, Visual force, JQuery, Angular JS Pages/Components, S-Controls, Workflow & Approvals, Case Management Custom Objects, Dashboards, Reports, SOQL and SOSL. Salesforce API Tools: Apex Explorer, Offline Edition, App Exchange, Data Loader, Connect Offline, Salesforce Integration Tools Apex Data Loader CRM Tools:  Siebel Siebel Technologies: Siebel UCM, Siebel Configuration, EScript, Workflows, Siebel EAI Languages:  Apex, C, C++, Java, SQL, HTML, XML Operating Systems:  Windows NT / 2000 / XP Pro / Vista/windows 7 Databases:  Oracle 11G, 9i, 8i Database Tools:  Toad, SQL Developer PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, NY Sr. Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information on the profile users. Customized Page layoutsfor Standard/Custom objects and assigned Record Types. Worked with various salesforce.com Standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Cases, Campaigns, Reports, and Dashboards. CreatedWorkflow Rulesto automateTasks, Email Alerts, time-dependent actions and Outbound API Messages. CreatedReportsandDashboardsto trackOpportunitypipeline/Stages for Management visibility. Designed Visualforce pages with XML, HTML along with custom controllers and controller extensions. Written Apex Classes,Controller, ExtensionControllers and Triggers in the application for various Business/functional requirements. Worked with SFChatter which helps the users to communicate with the organization easily and quickly. Worked with Integration and web services. Integrated Salesforce with legacy systems using Apex Web services and outbound messaging. Worked extensively with Sales cloud sharing model, user management, workflows, assignment rules, validation rules, records, dashboards and Reports. Configured Single Sign-on using SAML and Worked on Mass imports and exports of data. Implemented Salesforce web services like SOAP and REST API, Java, XML. Implemented SKUID for building user friendly interface (UI) for both standard and custom objects and to add custom functionalities in Force.com. Worked on existed Omni channel for partial amount of changes for assigning to real users and also worked on existed integration changes. Also worked on omni channel establishment for Leads and also for some custom object into a work item. Configured routing configuration for omni channel for the queue which are pushed to the agents. Implemented and maintained Salesforce Service Cloud and Sales Cloud. Built custom solutions with Apex andVisual Force, which support most critical processes and workflows at Wolters Kluwer. Developed & Scheduled batch process for administrative task like periodic data cleansing, security setupand workflow update. Salesforce.com Configuration and Design of Service Cloud, Sales Cloud and Force.com solutions, with anemphasis on Service Cloud solutions. Implemented Service Cloud including: Service Console, Customer Portal & Communities, Case Feed, Knowledge Base and Entitlements. Worked on numerous lightning components. Created various charts using Lightning component. Worked on cross platform usage of the project functionality using Lightning. Created a user interface in Lightning using Aura components, CSS, Bootstrap for a user to enter case details and submit in to Salesforce. Experience in building Lightning Components, Lightning Events, using Lightning Base Components, Lightning UI components and Aura Framework. Used Salesforce Lightning Inspector to debug the lightning components during the development process. Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DML operations on the case records. Used Salesforce1 simulator during the development to test if the lightning components works properly on the mobile device. Worked on Migrating Salesforce Classic to Lightning on the segments of accounts, Leads and Opportunities. Converted Visualforce pages and custom buttons as well as Links from Salesforce classic to Lightning. Environment: Saleforce.com CRM, Force.com platform, Chatter, Apex Classes, Service cloud, Sales Cloud, Visual Force Pages, Lightning Components, Security Controls, Reports, WSDL, Eclipse IDE, Windows. Confidential, Thousand Oaks, CA Sr.Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Implemented the Salesforce.com applications using Agile SCRUM Methodology that involves the iterative development. Served as the Communications Developer on an HP implementation of Salesforce Service Could and Sales Cloud. Developed Apex classes, Utility classes to use them for multiple functionalities. Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Manage Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects. Developed different Visual Force Pages using visual force components and configured them for great UI experience. Experience using version control system - SVN for managing source code. Have used Eclipse IDE and Change Set, Auto Rabit to deploy all the classes, triggers, objects, components, pages from sandbox environment to production environment. created a class with which I can insert, update and delete records from Salesforce using their bulk API Developed various Batch Apex classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable classes on hourly basis. Worked on enhancements for Salesforce application in production requested by business users from time to time. Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers, packages for various functional needs in the application. Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual force for the clients and customers. Developed Apex Test Classes with assurance of maximum code coverage. Deployed the Metadata from the Dev Sandbox to the test Sandbox with ANT migration tool. Designed Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements. Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse. Using Java application integrated Salesforce by using WSDL and BULK API to retrieve data for different objects, get record count, and generate queries. Involved in authoring Business Requirement Documents (BRD) into System Requirement Specifications (SRS) and identifying interface and business process specifications. Used Agile methodology and interacted with different stakeholders and participated in the regular meetings. Worked on SIT, UAT and MTP Data Migration Validation. Debug Apex scripts using Debug Logs and System Log Console to catch Exceptions and execute Governors and Limits. Developed and supported Extraction, Transformation and Load process (ETL) using Informatica. Worked in developing various lightning components using Aura events and lightning applications. Created Lightning Component Tabs and Visualforce Tabs. Created Visualforce pages that use the lightning components. Worked on Advance salesforce authentication salesforce1 for application authentication Worked on data migration of objects like Account, contact, lead, attachments and custom objects from source SFDC to Target SFDC, used data loader and file exporter tools. Worked on integrating the existing system with external systems using WSDL, REST API. Experience integrating SFDC with applications like AS400, Oracle,FTP, BOX.Com, Mule soft, AWS. Implemented Salesforce web services like SOAP and REST API, Java, XML. Worked with Integration and web services. Integrated Salesforce with legacy systems using Apex Web services and outbound messaging. Integrated web services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the other systems. Used third party tool - File exporter for migrating Documents, Attachments objects. Integrated the web services using REST by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the home grown applications by using the home grown web services. Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, Workbench, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, SQL Developer, SQL Plus, Microsoft SQL Server management Studio, Windows. Confidential, Dallas, TX Sr. Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Worked on Unit testing, for the customizations and developments done during the project. Worked on various standard objects like accounts, contacts, leads, opportunities, activities, dashboards. Developed classes and triggers using Force.com IDE and Developer Console. Implemented field level tracking and audit trail setup. Implemented Anonymous Apex, Batch and Scheduled Apex. Developed different Visual Force Pages, Triggers, Components and Controllers to suit to the needs of the application using different Visual force components. Worked extensively in customization of Service Cloud Console by embedding Visualforce pages in customconsole components, highlight panel and interaction log. Perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like Visual Force, Force.com IDE. Supported data migration activities for migrating data from various business centers and business center users with the support of Saleforce.com. Have implemented an CTI integration with using salesforce application with CISCO calling and Live agent with using the LDAP Technology. Implemented Web-to-lead to track and solve leads from the website. Designed, Implemented and deployed Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, and S Control to suit to application needs. Developed Visual Force Pages and Visual Force Custom Controllers. Proficiency in Anonymous Apex. Developed various Custom Objects, Formula fields, Master-Detail, Lookup relationships, Tabs, validation rules. Followed/Participated / Conducted Code Review Sessions. Created various Profiles, Roles, Page Layouts and configured the permissions based on the organization hierarchy Created detailed data mapping document for integrating various systems with Salesforce.com. Worked on Live Agent for enabling the interaction between the User and the Agent in the organization. Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual force for the clients and customers. Developed Apex Test Classes with assurance of maximum code coverage. Used third party tool - File exporter for migrating Documents, Attachments objects. Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse. Deployed the Metadata from the Dev Sandbox to the test Sandbox with ANT migration tool. Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and developed the Apex classes using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com IDE. Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, Reports and Dashboards. Using Java application integrated Salesforce by using WSDL and BULK API to retrieve data for different objects, get record count, and generate queries. Worked on integrating existing Salesforce with another Salesforce using REST API to display Object and field information. Developed Java code to extract data from Salesforce objects. Tracked defects in ALM, helped team in fixing the defects. Worked closing with Salesforce company folks in fixing the defects. It’s a Salesforce to CTI integration project. HP has different call centers for their different units. Project is about implementing those all call center on Salesforce with CTI integrated. It’s a CRM and CTIintegration Application. We have implemented an CTI integration with using salesforce application with CISCO calling andLive agent with using the LDAP Technology. Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, Workbench, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, SQL Developer, SQL Plus, Microsoft SQL Server management Studio, Windows. Confidential, Milpitas, CA Sr. Salesforce Admin/Consultant Responsibilities: Created objects, fields,Validation Rules, workflow rules, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic. Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com objects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files. Worked on various AppExchange products DRAWLOOP, DEMANDTOOLS, APPTUS according to the needs of the organization. Confidential is a leader in Health Cloud Shipping services for medical instruments which launched Apttus Quote-to-Cash. It provides a solution for users to order and pay for goods offered to Neopost customers and improve transactional and order management processes. Work actively with customer and C level management to resolve issues, gaps in process and engaging in future product road map for Apttus CPQ. Worked on ANSI X12 EDI Health Care Transactions implementation project Troubleshoot and provide technical support to resolve errors on the EDI X12 files Involved in data migration from Excel to Salesforce using Apex Data Loader. Data fields and descriptors were created to HIPAA standards. Migration of data from mainframe legacy database to client/server platform. Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects. Implemented CPQ solution using Apttus CPQ & Contract Management for various customers in industries. Used agile methodology and interacted with different stakeholders and participated in the regular meetings. Extensively developed SFDC custom objects and workflow business rules, fields, views. Created Permission sets on a button to mass update of the cases through the list view so that many cases can be updated at once. Apttus enables sales channels to sell more, sell bigger, and sell anywhere. Built within the Salesforce1platform Apttus CPQ is designed to boost sales effectiveness by guiding users to the best possible quotes for all products, pricing, and channels. In addition, by integrating quoting software with your contract processes, you can automate renewal quotes based on previously agreed upon pricing and terms Also Implemented Health Cloud data model by using Schema Builder. Schema Builder provides details, such as the field values, required fields, and how objects are related, by displaying lookup and master-detail relationships. Enabled the case’s classification field update when an article is attached to the case even if the portal content is blank so that there will be complete classification information on each case. Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual force for the clients and customers. Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing. Developed and supported Extraction, Transformation and Load process (ETL) using Informatica. Supported the data migration activities for migrating the data from various business sources with the support of Salesforce CRM. Worked on Dimensional modeling, Data cleansing and Data Staging of operational sources using ETL processes. Involved in Data mapping specifications to create and execute detailed system test plans. Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization. Apttus Configure Price Quote(CPQ) Developed page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages Responsible for working with developers team to create Visual force pages and Apex code development Gather business requirements and translate them into user stories Making changes and Automate Territory Management Developing and overseeing the development of the requirements Design test scripts and execute functional testing Work with business users to plan and execute user acceptance testing Trained and deployed SFDC solutions. Implemented Contract Management with better Approvals and Renewals. Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows. Confidential, Jersey City, NJ Salesforce Admin Responsibilities: Created Business Requirements Gathering sessions in the form of questionnaires and business scenarios with the end users, subject matter experts (SME) and the developers. Created Use Case Diagrams, Data Flow Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams in MS Visio. Conducted Joint Application Development sessions with management, SME’s, vendors, users and other stakeholders for open and pending issues. Implemented SOA (search oriented architecture) concepts for the application and implemented search engine based techniques Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard Objects including Accounts, Contacts, Reports, Dashboards, Events and Tasks. Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visual Force Pages and Controllers. Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization. Responsible for End-to-End Salesforce to Salesforce Data Migration using App Exchange products Monarch, Snapshot & Data Loader. Worked extensively in customization of Service Cloud Console by embedding Visualforce pages in customs console components, highlight panel and interaction log. Developed Apex Triggers, Validation Rules, workflows and Visual force pages. Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the needs of the organization Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts and field updates to implement business logic. Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading. Confidential Sr. Java J2EE Consultant Responsibilities: Used agile methodology for developing the application. Involved in developing the user interface using JSP’s, JSTL, HTML. Worked with a variety of issues involving multithreading, server connectivity and user interface. Reviewing and analyzing data model for developing the Presentation layer and Value Objects. Developed, implemented, and maintained an asynchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience using XML data and XSLT templates. Proficient in Java Multi-Threading, Socket programming, Swing programming. Responsible and active in the analysis, design, implementation, management, and deployment of full Software Development life-cycle of project (SDLC). Taken care of complete Java multi-threading part in back end components. Developing User Interface and implementing business process using JSP and Servlets. Development of the application that was used to create dynamic JSPs, given input from a database table containing information about the contents of the JSP being developed. Taken care of multi-threading in back end java beans. Involved in writing the presentation layer in Java Server Pages (JSP). Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server. Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC. Developed an API to write XML documents from a database. Utilized XML and XSL Transformation for dynamic web-content and database connectivity. Coded different deployment descriptors using XML. Generated Jar files are deployed on Apache Tomcat Server. Extensively worked with Eclipse IDE. Implemented complex back-end component to get the count in no time against large size MySQL database (about 4 crore rows) using Java multi-threading. Worked on RDBMS implementing using PL/SQL on oracle databases. Environment: Java, J2EE, WebLogic, Eclipse, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, XML and Oracle. Confidential Java/J2EE developer Responsibilities: Implemented Enterprise Java Beans and Servlets in WebLogic Server. Created part of the database consisting of about 75 tables in MS SQL 6.5 using SQL statements. Performed unit testing for the code and written test cases for the shopping cart module and performed black box and white box testing for the module. Designed the application using J2EE multi-tiered Web Application technologies incorporating MVC and other popular design pattern. Participated in the partial release of the application into production with the application hosted at Level III. Design of application components using Java Collections and providing concurrent database access using multithreading. Creating Oracle objects like tables, types, packages, procedures and functions Preparation of Test Data and Test Cases for Unit Testing using Junit. Used Rational Clear Quest for tracking errors and bugs in the project source code. Handled Java multi-threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user. Designed and implemented Java Classes, Interfaces, Model design, and interface layer design with other team members. Developed JSP’s and Servlets to dynamically generate HTML and display the data to the client side. Extensively used JSP tag libraries. Involved in writing services to write core logic for business processes. Used AJAX and Java Script to handle asynchronous requests, and CSS was used to keep uniformly in look of the application. EJBs in the application and developed Session beans for the business logic at the middle tier level. Created Test plan documents and testing using Junit Framework. Used JAXB parser for parsing valid .xml files as defined by XSD. Created and modified Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers Complex SQL Commands for the application using PL/SQL. Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems. Designed JDBC Connection for data retrieval and updating purpose, also developed connection pool to avoid waiting time for database connection. Used Tomcat server for application development with Eclipse. Environment: Java, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JavaScript/HTML, SQL Server, Win NT and WebLogic Server. 