SUMMARY Around 5 years of IT involvement in all periods of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes prerequisite social event, necessity examination, outline, improvement, usage and upgrade of tasks in SalesForce.com and Java innovations. Experience in using different tools - Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard, SFDC Data Export, Mass Delete etc. Good involvement in SFDC related innovations, for example, Apex, Visual force, Apex triggers. In profundity comprehension of CRM business forms like Campaign Management, Lead Management, Account Management, Opportunity Management, Support Process and Forecasting. Configured and keep up User profiles, role hierarchy, sharing standards and Security, Password policies. Created Custom Apps, Custom Objects, Custom fields, Applying Sharing Rules, Handling Page Layouts, Search Layouts, Related List and characterizing Field Dependencies and custom buttons. Extensive involvement in utilizing Roles, Profiles, Email Services, Page Layouts, Workflow Rules, case Escalations, Assignment guidelines and Approval Process in Salesforce.com. Working experience in producing Reports, Dashboards, customized reports and analyzing the information in Salesforce. Good encounter on making Object/Tab/Field, Formula, Record Types, Queues and Groups. Experience with web-to-lead, Web-to case, Email-to-case. Expertise in developing, deploying and integrating Salesforce.com CRM. Experience in developing Client-specific solutions on force.com platform using Apex Classes and Triggers, Web service API, Force.com IDE, Validation rules. Experience on Governor Limits. Involved in creating new Lightning pages and build custom Salesforce 1 Lightning apps for different business groups in the organization using Lightning App Builder. Extensive knowledge and thorough understanding of RDBMS utilizing Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008. Proficient knowledge on web technologies like HTML, XML, JSP, JavaScript and JQuery. Good knowledge on Database Design, functions, triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experienced in integration of SalesForce.com with external applications by using SOAP API and REST API. Extensively worked on Salesforce.com sandbox and production environments including creating Sandboxes and refreshing it time to time. Deployment between Production and Sandboxes using Eclipse, Force.com Migration Tool, and Change set. Excellent analytic, Interpersonal and Communication aptitudes, quick learner, dedicated and great cooperative person. Capable of quickly adapting new advancements and effectively applying them to tasks and operations. TECHNICAL SKILLS Salesforce Technologies: SalesforceCRM, Apex Language, Apex Classes/ Controllers, Apex Triggers, Lightning App Builder, Visual Force Pages/Components, Salesforce Outlook, WSDL, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Apex Web Services, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Case Management Automation. Tools: Eclipse, Github, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Force.com, Data Loader, Force.com Excel Connector, Force.com Platform Languages: Java, Java Server Pages (JSP), C++, python, PL/SQL, HTML, HTML5, XML, CSS3, JavaScript. Frameworks: JQuery, Bootstrap, Kendo UI, Play Framework Web Application Servers: Apache Web Server, Tomcat 4.x/5.x/6.x/7.x, REST API, SOAP API Databases: Oracle 11g/10g/9i, SQL Server 2008 Operating Systems: Windows 98/NT/2000/XP, iOS, UNIX, Linux PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Sterling, VA Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements. Involved in API/Web Service design and developing technical specifications for the Salesforce.com (SFDC) application. Worked on service cloudmodule such as web-to-case, Escalation rules, and Assignment rules. Implemented SFDC CRM to deliver various reports in departments of Sales, Administration and Marketing etc. Interface Designing using Visualforce page and their supportive Controller Classes. Automate the functionality by writing Triggers and Apex Classes. Reengineered APEX code already in production to optimize trigger based transactions for performance and speed as well as to work seamlessly with governor limits. Developed Lightning apps with Lightning Components and make them compatible with Salesforce1 mobile configuration. Responsible for Unit testing and performance testing of SFDC API/Web Service. Responsible for Agile methodology testing package upgrades in sandbox org and deploying in production org. Created public websites and applications that are directly integrated with your Salesforce.com organization using sites. Environment: Salesforce.com, Force.com, Apex, Data Loader, Lighting, Communities, CRM, Import Wizard, Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visualforce Pages, JQuery, XML and Triggers. Confidential - Richmond, VA Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Developed custom solutions which include Apex classes, triggers on standard and custom objects in the sales cloud. Created Several Approval procedures, to deal with the edge scenarios, where a quote/entity needs to be approved. Developed custom solutions which include Apex classes, triggers on standard and custom objects in the sales cloud. Worked on service cloudmodule such as web-to-case, Escalation rules, and Assignment rules. Used workbench, for testing the end focuses through REST explorer and also for Database operations like composition complex SOQL, SOSL Queries. Worked on components, controllers and helper for UI usingSalesforceLightning. Involved in solving the various Governor Limit issues in the existing functionality. Worked with SOAP API and REST API while building the sites and portals. Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce Objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files. Packaged and Deployed customizations from Sandbox to other environments using Eclipse. Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex classes & triggers, SOSL, SOQL, Sales Cloud, Service cloud, Lightning App Builder, Workbench, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Mavens Mate Sublime Salesforce plugin. Confidential - Union, NJ Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Involved in identifying, planning, and implementing newSalesforce.com highlights. Implemented custom Visual Force page and controller extension for various applications included. Designed and deployed Custom tabs, Approval Processes, and Auto-Response Rules for automating Business logic. Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, and Apex Triggers, packages for various functional needs of the application. Created workflow rules and characterized related tasks, email alarms, and field updates. Created page layouts and search layouts to organize fields, custom links and other segments on record pages. Created custom objects depending upon the requirements of the client. Provided support ongoing Salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflow, campaign management and Triggers. Created test scenarios on Sandbox environment, created packages and moved it amongst Sandboxes and Production environments to place final implementations. Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com Sites, Apex, Visual force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Lightning, Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java, JavaScript, CSS, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, Data Loader, SF Explorer and Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Confidential Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Customized page layouts for opportunity, contacts and accounts depending upon user roles and groups. Implemented Pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships and formula fields to the custom objects. Created and deployed several reports and Dashboards as per the business requirements. Administered, designed, maintained Salesforce.com application user profiles, roles, Permissions, generating security tokens, validation Rule, upgrade installation. Designed and created workflow rules, validation rules, and customizations within Salesforce. Developed and deployed workflows and approval processes for opportunities and products/ assets management. Developed some visual force pages which handle the quote to cash process for meeting the business requirements. Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization. Worked with Data loader for loading the attachments into salesforce.com, related to objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, and Activities. Created and utilized Email templates in HTML. Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Pages, Data Loader, HTML, JavaScript, Web Services, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services. 