SUMMARY Over eight years of IT experience on Java and ITIL related technologies, including 5 years of experience in ServiceNow Development and Administration. Hands - on experience in technical implementation of Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management and Service Catalog. Strong client interfacing skills. Experience in business analysis and In-depth knowledge of full Software Development life cycle experience including requirements, analysis, design, and development and testing with different methodologies such as Waterfall, agile methodologies. Act as a liaison between stakeholder’s business users and technical teams to clarify any questions on requirements. Strong Client Interfacing and negotiating skills Extensive experience in creating Business Requirement Document, Functional requirement document by interviewing stakeholders, end users, and SMEs to gather business requirements. Heavily involved in brainstorming sessions, GAP analysis, Root Cause Analysis, walkthroughs, meetings, and JAD sessions with all stakeholders in the project. Experienced working with developers and quality analysts both onsite and offshore teams. Experience in implementing end-to-end Service Catalog. Designed and configured different Workflows for various Service Catalog items. Worked in Installation and Configuration of different modules of ServiceNow. Created different Transform maps to import data into ServiceNow. Implementing system security by using Access Control Lists (ACL). Provides daily support of Service Management Platform (ServiceNow), including Scripting, Configuration, Customization, Integrations, Administration ServiceNow processes (User management/Group management), Functions, Service Catalog and Workflow. Experience in generating different kinds of scheduled Reports. Experience in creating Update Sets to migrate group of customizations from one instance to another instance. Configured MID Server to import data from external sources. Extensive experience in writing Client Side and Server Side scripts. Participated in workshops (new technologies, enhancement) with ServiceNow partner teams to help company implement ServiceNow using best practices in ITSM. Experience in web development (UI) using HTML 5, CSS 3 and JQuery. Excellent work experience on Front-end and Backend testing. Excellent oral and written communications, interpersonal, negotiation, analysis and problem-solving skills. Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile Methodology. TECHNICAL SKILLS ITIL: ServiceNow Requirement Management: MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel, MS Visio Programing Languages: C/C++, Java,J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL Scripting Languages: JavaScript, Jelly Script, HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML,JSON,JQuery Web/Application Server: Tomcat Web Server, MID Server, Web Sphere IDE: Eclipse, Net Beans, TOAD Databases: Oracle 10g, MySQL, SQL, DB2 Project Management / Tools: MS Project, MS Office, SharePoint, TFS, HP Quality Center Tool, Trello Object Modelling Software Process: SDLC, Waterfall, Agile Methodology, Prototype model. Certifications: Service NowAdministrator PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Miami Service Now Consultant/ Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in gathering the Business Requirements and current state processes to develop and configure in the Service Now Platform. Perform day to day administration of the Service-Now tool Maintain business services and configuration item relationships in Service-Now tool. Manages data with Tables, the CMDB, Import Sets, and Update Sets. Created custom tables in CMDB and imported the data and the relationships. Involved in process standardization for the catalog items. Integrated Service now with Ansible using orchestration. Extensively worked on catalog items (Off-boarding & Onboarding) Worked extensively on Email Inbound Actions. Worked with Vendor on setting up and designing request solutions Created workflows and catalog items. Automated decommission of server using Orchestration workflow Confidential, Denver, Colorado Service Now Developer/ Lead Analyst Responsibilities: Gathered requirement from stakeholders for attributes needed to develop Service Catalog items. Identifies and Recommends the ITIL v3 methodologies to delivered technical methodologies around the Service Now platform. Involved in the migration of requests from Remedy to SNOW Worked on getting data into CMDB from SQL server Involved in gathering the Business Requirements and current state processes to develop and configure in the Service Now Platform. Involved in Migration of 2700 requests From Remedy to SNOW Provided analysis, design and development of Service-Now trouble ticketing and incident management systems to support the company’s technical operations. Integrated Service Now with OIM Responsible technical documentation for Configuration, Customization, Integration with External Services, Administration Service Now processes. Worked on various modules of Service Now like Incident management, Change management, and Problem management, Service Catalog, User Administration, Reporting and Discovery. Identifies and Recommends the ITIL v3 methodologies to deliver technical methodologies around the Service Now platform. Created the Business rules, Catalog Client scripts, Catalog UI policies for the new service catalog requests developed for new employee hire on boarding request. Created Data Sources for various external applications. Used Import sets and Transform maps to import data into Service Now. Worked on service now performance analytics module, involved in configuring the incident dashboard. Created Access Control List (ACL) rules for forms, tables, modules and also managed groups/roles according to the requirement. Involved in LDAP integration in getting users to SNOW. Developed Email Templates and Email Notifications. Created Widgets in the Service portal Created service portal as per the branding requirements. Created and modified various Business Rules, Script includes, Ajax Query, JavaScript, and UI Actions, UI Policies and Service Level Agreements (SLA) for the existing and customized applications as per the business requirements. Involved in integration using SOAP and REST. Designed Workflows, along with standard Workflow templates which can be reused. Developed reports as per requirements from management. Documented all implementations and best practices defined within team. Created Update Sets to migrate customizations from one instance to another instance. Environment: Service Now, Start Now, CMDB, XML, Java script, Oracle, Toad. Confidential, Denver, Colorado ServiceNow Developer/Administrator/Analyst Responsibilities: Attended review meetings and project meetings, Analyzed Business Requirements and Functional Specifications and performed Service Catalog, Incident, Problem and Service Level Management Implementation. Involved in setting up MSP instance. Utilized Java Scripting to deliver solutions that automate and audit business processes using UI Policy, Client Script, UI Action and Business Rules Configuration and customization of Help Desk and different Modules including: Business Rules, Client Scripts, Dictionary Overrides, UI Policies and UI Actions based on user requirements. Responsible for creating homepages including basic Reporting. Worked on Configuring the IP Addresses to identify the undiscovered CI's and insert them into CMDB. Working experience of various phases of SDLC such as Requirement Analysis, Design, Code Construction and Test. Involved in integrations using SOAP and REST Created Data Sources for various external applications. Used Import sets and Transform maps to import data into Service Now. Created Update sets to move customizations between different systems. Environment: Service Now,Windows 7/8, XML, Java script, Jelly Script, Oracle, Toad. Confidential, Auburn hills, Michigan ServiceNow Developer/Administrator Responsibilities: Gathered requirement from stake holders for attributes needed to develop Service Catalog items. Identifies and Recommends the ITIL v3 methodologies to delivered technical methodologies around the ServiceNow platform. Attended review meetings and project meetings, Analyzed Business Requirements and Functional Specifications and performed Service Catalog, Incident, Problem and Service Level Management Implementation. Utilized Java Scripting to deliver solutions that automate and audit business processes using UI Policy, Client Script, UI Action and Business Rules Configuration and customization of Help Desk and different Modules including: Business Rules, Client Scripts, Dictionary Overrides, UI Policies and UI Actions based on user requirements. Responsible for creating homepages including basic Reporting. Worked on Configuring the IP Addresses to identify the undiscovered CI's and insert them into CMDB. Worked on CMDB and Asset management. Performed Data migration to import data from other Applications and external databases. Created Data Sources for various external applications. Used Import sets and Transform maps to import data into ServiceNow. Created Update sets to move customizations between different systems. Developed solutions using JavaScript, Web Services, SOAP and other web technologies to integrate ServiceNow with internal/ external systems and tools. Created full documentation for Service-Now applications. Environment: ServiceNow, Java Script, Jelly Script, XML, JSON, AJAX. Confidential, Herndon, VA ServiceNow Developer/Administrator Responsibilities: Created Data Sources from various external applications, scripts to parse incoming data and transform into Service Now. Implemented JDBC Export to execute custom SQL queries in the target database based on requirement. Design and implement new functionality using Business Rules, UI Policies, and Access Lists etc. Created Buttons and context menus both on form and lists using UI actions. Worked with Apache Jelly to create various kinds of UI pages. Create and use update sets to move customizations between ServiceNow instances. Worked on COTS software implementation. Develop custom integration components (SSO, LDAP, etc.) and integrate legacy systems with ServiceNow using mid­server, web services, email and other relevant technologies. Experience in the development and ongoing management of the ServiceNow cloud environment to align organization with ITIL Best Practices, grow the Service Catalog across mission support and to build out CMDB. Involved in creating and configuring the SLAs as per the requirement. Designed, developed new Service Catalog items. Work on various ServiceNow customization, enhancements as per Client requirements. Created Inbound Email Integrations. Created and modified various Business Rules, Script includes, Ajax, JQuery, JavaScript, and Jelly scripts, UI Actions, UI Policies for the existing and customized applications as per the business requirements. Participated in daily scrum meeting and developer meetings. Environment: ServiceNow, Java Script, Jelly Script, XML, JSON, AJAX, HTML Confidential Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for documenting the storage related documentation. Captured the information related to San storage and fabrics. Captured the replication details related to local and DR site Captured the available LUN information Created CR for the EMC upgrades. Documented the Recover point solution. Worked with the VM ware team to capture the information related to VM.