SUMMARY Around 5+ years of experience as a .NET Developer in the IT industry with efficient knowledge in design, development, testing and maintenance of enterprise web - based applications using Microsoft .NET technologies. Involved in all phases of System development life cycle (SDLC) like System Analysis, Software requirement, specification/documenting, designing, coding, testing, debugging, application evaluation and implementation of complex systems. Expertise in working with Microsoft Technologies such as .Net Framework, Windows applications using C#, ASP.NET, MVC, Patterns including Dependency Injection (DI), N inject & MOQ Framework and SQL Server. Designing the layout and developing the input screens efficiently by using Telerik and .Net 4.5, ASP .NET MVC5, Web API, Razor View Engine, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Json, Ajax, Angular JS, C#, HMTL. Proficient in Front-End technologies like HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, XML, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax, Angular 2.0/4.0 and React Js for creating Responsive Web Applications and Single Page Applications (SPA). Solid understanding of Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOD& OOPS) Dependency Injection, UML and RDBMS principles. Skilled in developing and implementing various Design Patterns, LINQ, XML/XSL, jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, Web Parts and Custom Controls. Extensively worked on Web server like IIS  5.0/6.0/7.5. (Internet information services). Experience in working with N-tier architecture and SOA using Windows communication foundation. Excellent work experience in developing and consuming Web services (XML, SOAP, RESTful, WSDL, XSLT and in Xpath) and Web API. Used VB.Net/C#.Net and ADO.NET to define and implement Business Logic Layer and Data Access Layer. Experienced in building Data-Driven applications using Microsoft Entity Framework. Experience in MVC 3.0/4.0/5.0 to makes applications load faster and some of the processing can be done in web browsers and not only the client side but the server-side execution is faster too. Knowledge in querying the databases like SQL Server  2015/2012/2008 and Oracle 11G/10G database design and development in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views and PL/SQL, T-SQL (Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Cursors). Experienced in report generation by using Crystal Reports and SSRS. Proficient in using various agile tools such as JIRA, Rally, Version One, ALM and different source control tools like TFS (Team Foundation Server), SVN(Sub-Version), GIT - Hub. Designed architectures leveraging Windows Azure and Windows Workflow Foundation High analytical and problem-solving skills with the ability of quickly adapting to new challenging work environments and high grasping capability on learning latest technologies. Experience in mentoring developer members and end users. Skill to work independently by constructing own knowledge base and can work as team projecting the leadership qualities. TECHNICAL SKILLS Technologies: ASP.NET  4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0 , ASP.NET MVC 5.0/4.0/3.0, WCF, Web API, ADO.NET Entity Framework 6.0/5.0/4.1, LINQ, LINQ to XML, LINQ to ENTITIES, E-SQL, Web Services, Enterprise Library 5.0/4.0/3.1, C# 3.0/4.0/4.5, VB.NET  10.0/9.0/8.0 , MVC  6.0/5.0/4.0/3.0.  Languages: C, C++, C#, VB.Net, PL/SQL, T-SQL. Design Patterns: MVC, Singleton, MVVM, UML, OOPS Web Technologies & scripting Languages: ASP.NET, ASP, XML, HTML5, CSS, JQuery, AJAX,WCF,WPF, Java Script, Angular 2.0/4.0, Bootstrap, Web API Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Linux Databases: SQL Server (2012/ 2014), Oracle 11g/12c, MS Access Version Control: TFS, Visual Source Safe 6.0, GIT, SVN. Tools: SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS), Rapid SQL. Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). IDE: Visual Studio  2012/2013/2015 , /2017, Dream weaver 8.0 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Columbus, OH .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Software development life cycle (SDLC) of application from design phase to implementation phase, testing, Deployment and maintenance phase. Communicated effectively with the supervisor, immediate supervisor and other staff within the organization. Developed web application using ASP.NET MVC 5, Angular 2/4, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 4, TypeScript, AJAX, Kendo UI and SQL Server. Used TypeScript to write the Angular Components, Modules, Services, and Models. Developed frontend pages using HTML, CSS and Bootstrap framework. Used Visual studio 2015, MVC5 and razor view to build the project. Implemented OOPs concept to properly structure, secure and minimize codes. Extensively used jQuery for client-side operations like displaying popups, validations, event handling, checking and clearing session. Implemented AJAX to load contents individually in different partial views to minimize loading time. LINQ was extensively used in view extension to parse out unnecessary information and to make call to SQL database. Build Angular Directives for various types of input controls (reusable) such as Date, Decimal, Currency and complex controls (reusable) such as multi-select dropdown, single-select dropdown and developed 1-way/2-way binding properties within the Directives using JSON objects Implemented form validations using Angular Template-driven and Reactive Forms. Made use of Pipes from Angular as filters to display data nicely to users. Developed RESTful Services that implement HTTP Client Module's POST, GET, PUT, DELETE methods to invoke Web API methods and performed CRUD operations on the data and used POSTMAN to test the Web API. Implemented and consumed Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) for automatic dump in SQL server. Implemented Unit of Work and Repository pattern with Entity framework (code first approach) and LINQ as the architecture of Web API. Developed various User Defined Functions, Stored Procedures, Views and Triggers to manipulate data transactions. Generating different types of reports using SQL Server Reporting Service (SSRS). Attended daily standup meetings to provide task status with JIRA Agile. Participated in different User Acceptance Testing (UAT) meetings with end user team. Performed complex parameterized SQL queries to multiple tables in SQL server 2014 and implemented Joins in Stored Procedures to get the desired data by joining multiple tables in Domain layer. Experienced with deployments, Maintenance and troubleshooting applications on Microsoft Cloud infrastructure Azure. Version and Source Control handled through TFS in Visual Studio. Technologies Used: ASP.Net MVC, C#, Entity Framework 4.0, SQL Server 2014, Typescript, Angular 2.0/4.0, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, LINQ, Windows 7, Visual Studio 2015, .Net Framework 4.5, SSIS, N Unit, JIRA, Web API, LINQ to SQL, TFS. Confidential, Phoenix, AZ .Net Developer Responsibilities: Participating in full project lifecycle with focus on defining standards for technical solutions, documentation, unit testing and deployment. Interacted with the client during requirement gathering phase. Analyzing requirements to determine and provide realistic estimates and Solutions. Designed dynamic web pages with C# using razor in ASP.NET, HTML, and JavaScript and C #. Focused on frontend development using ReactJS/ Redux, Materialize CSS and Toolbox API Worked on developing a different module with Angular 2 which will be run on Node JS server and some modules have developed using Angular 2 and React JS. Have knowledge on implementing web applications using React JS library. Implemented reusable components and forms using React JS while developing a web application. Implemented MVC design pattern to develop the application. Used core JavaScript (AngularJS) and jQuery framework to work with single page mobile application and simplify the HTML document traversing and event handling. Worked with Telerik to display huge amount of data to the inbuilt grid controls. Used Ajax Controls for client-side validations with asynchronous data execution using threads when needed to increase the performance. Utilized Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS) to manage the team's software development lifecycle. Deployed and managed applications using Windows Azure. Implemented J-Query for the user controls and web forms and JSON text format to store and transfer data. Designed WPF Windows with windows controls and implemented application logic using Visual C#. Populated data into the application using WCF, Web services, and Entity Framework. Created WCF Services responsible for communicating and providing real time data from integrated server to client application. Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for Version Control, Team Build and Project Management. Involved in all stages of software development including SIT (System Integration Test) and UAT (User Acceptance Test) Implemented page level error handling using Custom Error pages and Error logs Used WPF for creating windows and custom win form control using various animation techniques. Used LINQ to SQL to query database and made use of LINQ to objects and lambda expression for retrieving data proficiently. Implemented Data Access layer using ADO.NET to communicate with Microsoft SQL Server database for data manipulation. Created Indexes, Stored Procedures, Triggers and Views using SQL Server 2012. Performed Unit Testing, Integration Testing and Regression Testing of the application. Actively involved in Bug Fixing during the build and deployment process and debugging using Jira. Technologies Used: Net Framework 3.5, Visual Studio 2012, VB.Net 10, IIS, C#, HTML, CSS, React JS, Angular JS 2.0, XML, XSLT, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, jQuery, MVC 3.0, Azure, JSON, WCF, WPF, AngularJS, SSIS, SQL Server 2012, Web Services, Agile Methodologies, LINQ Confidential Jr. .Net Developer Responsibilities: Participated in daily scrums and weekly meetings with the project sponsors to meet expectations and deadlines. Application was developed under ASP.Net MVC architecture. Used AJAX Library, CSS, JavaScript and various web controls to present data to users in a much comfortable environment. Enabled Client-side Data Validation in .NET using the validation controls like Regular Expression validation, Required Field validation, etc. Created WCF REST Services, RESTFUL Services and used different bindings to make it available to different types of clients. Involved in developing applications in C# to meet the business requirements using Visual Studio.NET 2008. Extensively used Ajax to reduce connections to the server, since scripts and style sheets only must be requested once. Involved in portal GUI design using Master page, Login control, Site map, Microsoft menu control and client-side validation is done by Ajax validation extenders. Developed and tested user-friendly navigators by utilizing JavaScript and VB .NET Developed rich client interface using Silverlight 2. Implemented MVVM (Model View View Model) pattern to create Silverlight user controls. Used the Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) techniques and created classes (in C#.NET) for database access. Worked extensively on web forms and data binding controls like Grid View, Data List and drop-down boxes and Mapping page fields to the database fields. Programmed LINQ TO SQL for communication between application and database, used extensively Data Grid. Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Views in SQL Server 2008 for accessing the database. Session and view state objects used to maintain user session data and page post back operations respectively. Used SOAP to Implement Web Services and Consumed and published XML web services in the application Implemented Web Services to integrate the client systems using WCF. Developed and consumed WCF Services to achieve Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and communication between heterogeneous applications. Used Crystal Report to generate various reports as per the client’s requirement. Using SSIS, created integration service. These services used to load data from excel sheets to SQL server 2008. Created XML, PDF, EXCEL files using SSRS. Implemented Unit Testing, Integration Testing and System Testing using NUnit. Technologies Used: Visual Studio 2012, ASP.Net 3.5, LINQ TO SQL, C# 3.0, Web Services, WCF, SQL Server 2008, T-SQL, MVC 3.0, Json, jQuery, SQL Server Integrated Services (SSIS), SSRS, XML, XSLT, VSS, CSS, N Unit. Confidential Jr. .Net Developer Responsibilities: Created dialog box and prompt for effective interaction of the UI page by Using JavaScript Library jQuery to develop Dynamic content in Webpages. Validated web forms Client-side JavaScript and jQuery. Added good navigation capabilities using User Controls and Custom Controls. Designed UML Diagrams Use Diagrams for the Web application. Implemented Password Reset Functionality for the Login Page. Consumed Web API XML format Data and added Styling using XSLT to Displayed data in the Classic Asp.Net webpages. Used AD rotator Control to display Upcoming Events in the web Pages from External XML file. Worked on a module in Developing Desktop WinForms application using C# as a Programming Language. Created Various User Layouts using WinForms for using c#. Designed and developed database driven Windows forms. Developed the user interface and implemented the code behind files using ASP.NET and C#. Generated SAP Crystal Reports from the databases and integrated in the ASP.NET Webform Applications. Utilized the WebChart Controls in the ASP.NET pages. Designed database Structure for in SQL Server the web Application. Created Tables and stored Procedures in for ASP.NET webforms Application. Used Editable Data Grid Controls to display the requested information. Used ADO.NET for Communication Between Databases and Web Application. Used bulky Copy to copy from one database to Another. Used Custom Validations, Validation Controls for text boxes and performed validations both on Client side and server side. Involved in the Business meeting and went to client locations to give demo on ongoing projects. Used Datasets for temporary storing and manipulation of data of .Net Application. Created Security features for Web based tool using windows authentication. Technologies Used: ASP.NET Webforms, ASP.NET MVC, ADO.NET, C#, Visual Studio .0 Version, SQL Server 2008, JavaScript, CSS, XML, HTML. 