SUMMARY: Having 8 Years of IT experience with 5 years of strong experience in design, Development, communities, Lightning component development, Lightning locker services, classic to Lightning migration and deployment of application using Force.com, Apex, Visual force and Cloud Computing based Sales force CRM, customization and development. Experience in the complete life cycle of project development (SDLC) including System Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, and Deployment and Maintenance. Excellent experience in modifying Visualforce pages (Standard and custom controllers), to support theLightningExperience and good understanding ofLightningmode and its features. Worked with SOQL, SOSL, Apex, and force.com Web Services API. Strong in AuraLightningframework with Applications, Components, Controllers, Stylesheets. Excellent experience working across various SFDC on covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Community cloud & Marketing cloud configuration and customization and good understanding with Client/Server architecture Call center, Chatter. Exceptional knowledge on Java Multi - Threading, Collections, Interfaces, Synchronization, and Exception Handling and good hands on experience with HTML, XML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON, Angular JS and AJAX. Hands on experience in creating custom objects, custom tabs, custom fields, components, page layouts, record types, workflow and validation rules, Reports, Report folders, snapshots, and Dashboards. Proficient in creating profiles, roles, and permission sets and implemented security and sharing rules for users at various levels in the organization. Configured Single Sign-on using SAML and Worked on Mass imports and exports of data. Implemented SKUID for building user friendly interface (UI) for both standard and custom objects and to add custom functionalities in Force.com. Used asynchronous Metadata API to manage setup and customization information. Experienced in Creating Users, Roles, Profiles, Permission sets, Email Services, Page Layouts, Record Types, Lead processes, Sales processes, Support Processes, Workflow Alerts and Actions, and Approval processes, Lead and Case Assignment rules. Extensive experience in Salesforce.com Setup, Configuration, Customization, Administration, and Data Migration and Integration tools like Apex Data Loader, Work Bench. In-depth understanding of CRM business process that include Forecasting, Campaign Management, Lead Management, Order Management, Account Management, Case Management and Merging Management. Utilize cloud integration tools such as MuleSoft, Web Methods-Cloud Streams, Informatica Cloud manage integrations between SalesForce.com and other systems Expert knowledge of MVC concepts, object-oriented methodologies and approaches Excellent Knowledge with development tools such as Eclipse & GIT. Experienced in Sandbox Management (Like Refreshing Sandbox, Creating New Sandbox and Migrating code from one sandbox to the other) With Change set and good Proficiency in the deployments with ANT Migration tool and COPADO. Involved in Custom Integration of Outbound Messages, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects and Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, AppExchange, Package & Custom Application, Sandbox data loading. Developed Force.com ETL processes using Cast Iron, Java and Salesforce Web Services API. Strong experience in working with off shore teams and coordinating with business and offshore teams to meet the requirements. Extensive exposure to Black Box testing, Smoke testing, Usability testing, End-to-End testing, System testing, Regression testing and User Acceptance testing (UAT). Excellent team player, self-motivated, quick learner with good communication skills and trouble-shooting capabilities. TECHNICAL SKILLS: SFDC Technologies: Apex Language, Apex Scheduler, Apex Triggers, Apex Classes/Controllers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages, S-Controls, Apex Web Services, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Chatter, Salesforce 1, Reports, Analytic Snapshots,AJAX, Validation Rules, Formulae, Custom Objects. Force.com Tools: Force.com Eclipse IDEPlug-in, Force.com Excel Connector,Eclipse, Workbench and Force.com Platforms (Sandbox and production) Force.com service console toolkitSalesforce Data migration Tools: Apex Data Loader Import and Export Wizard, Dream Factory Monarch, Workbench. Languages: C, Java, J2EE, Apex. Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, jQuery, Boot Strap, Java Script, Visual Force, and Web Services. Web Services: SOAP, REST, WSDL, XML, JSON Middleware Tools: MuleSoft Development Tools: Sublime Text 3, Beyond Compare, Mavensmate, SonarQube for code review. Project Management Tools: MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, MS Project, Visio and Share point., JIRA Database: MySQL, Oracle 11g/10g, MS SQL Server, SQL Developer, MS Access. Web/Application Severs: WebLogic, WebSphere, Tomcat Operating Systems: UNIX/Linux, Windows 10/8.1/8/7/Vista/ XP Pro, Mac OS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, VA Sr. Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Involved in various activities of the project, like development meeting requirement gathering and analyzing requirements, documenting the functional and non-functional requirements using Business Requirements Document (BRD) Worked on converting Salesforce classic VF pages into lightning using lightning components and lightning App builder. Developed Visual force pages (standard controller, Custom controller and extension controller), Apex Triggers, Apex classes, using Sublime text editor with Mavens Mate Force.com Plug-in for business logics and Worked on Visual flow for achieving the user triggered actions for displaying customer information on the screens. Involved in creating a component for custom buttons which are not supported inLightning. Responsible for developing SalesforceLightningapplications using Lightning Components, Controllers and Events and used custom CSS in the components. Deployed validation rules, workflow rules, auto-response rules and approval process to implement the business logic. DevelopedLightningComponent Framework and built Lightningcomponent using aura framework. Built reusable UI/UX components withLightningcomponent framework and responsible for Maintenance of installed Managed Packages inLightningusing Apex. Responsible for setting up OAuth to enable external client applications to communicate with SFDC platform and Configured single Sign-on SSO using SAML with Ping federate identity provider. Building Batch Classes and Schedule class according to the business requirement, building wrapper classes to improve the work efficiency and Developed the batch process to load data from external system to salesforce. Doing bulkification of the trigger using Collections like list, set and Map. Worked on Rest API to design and support web services platform. Implemented Quote-to-Cash solution using APTTUS CPQ, Involved in CPQ (Configure, Price& Quote) design and mapped to the Salesforce custom objects and involved in Apttus Advanced Workflow Approvals. Connected with MuleSoft for populating the Account Information data. Used SOQL and SOSL queries within custom controllers, extensions and triggers. Worked on External enterprise applications with salesforce using Metadata API and Used Metadata API to retrieve, deploy, create, update or delete customization information, such as custom object definitions and page layouts, for your organization. Worked on Sales cloud in opportunity management, account management. Created communities for internal users to collaborate and share content in real time. Designed and developed Rest Web service to integrate the uploaded documents with external systems like IVU, Credit Pointe and downstream PEGA system. Deployed code to higher environments using change sets, Copado and ANT migration tool and updated the deployment tracker. Provided Case Management by Configuring Email-to-Case for end user to submit a case through Outlook. Developed the functional test plans, test Scenarios, test cases, test scripts and User Acceptance test (UAT) Resolved the Cases and support the team on urgent bases, implementation and working with real-time troubleshooting. Environment: Apex, Visual force, Apex Classes, SOQL,LightningComponents, Apex triggers, Visual force Pages, Batch Apex, Schedule Apex, REST, Workflows and Approvals, Data Warehousing, Case Management, Automation, test.SalesForce.com, S-Controls, Java Script, Workflows, Reports, Force.com Eclipse Plug-in, APTTUS CPQ, Ant script. Confidential, CA Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Salesforce Service Cloud Setup activities and customized applications per the business needs. Developed Apex Classes and Triggers to implement business logic in the Salesforce platform. Utilized the SOAP and REST API’s to expose Salesforce org data to Enterprise applications. Gathered requirements extensively by interacting with business and demonstrated the implementation of the requirements. Resolved issues day-to-day and updating the report status of the issues to the entire team. Used SOQL with consideration to Salesforce Governor Limits for DML statements. Developed VisualForce pages and custom controllers using Mavens Mate tool to implement custom user interface. Implemented Webpages using HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript with VisualForce page as a container. Implemented Live Agent customer service and customized chat windows, buttons, and pages. Enhanced service cloud processes by implementing knowledge base for self-support of the agents. Used Salesforce Email Services for Email to Case and sending out Customer Notifications using workflows. Instantiated CTI (Computer Telephony Integration) into CRM platform to allow the call centers to perform and analyze the records while resuming the call from the console. Implemented Chatter in the organization for feed-tracking, file sharing, conversations and customized chatter with Apex triggers to update chatter feeds. Created Reports and Dashboards to generate weekly reports and worked on analytical reports. Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization. Developed and configured Salesforce 1 mobile application to suit the needs of the organization. Exploring and learning Salesforce 1 Lighting app builder and developed applications using point-and-click. Used apex Data loader to synchronize the data in SFDC. Worked on First Data Integration for Credit Card Validations. Working on Steel Brick for CPQ. Configured Single Sign-on SSO using SAML with Ping federate identity provider. Implemented SAML based SSO for authentication. Deployed applications from Sandbox to Production using Copado. Worked in Multiple Teams in terms of integration with MuleSoft. Designed a process to implemented SLA on custom object records and worked with Case Entitlements to manage SLA’s and Milestones. Performed Unit Testing in Salesforce Platform to ensure code coverage of Apex Classes and Triggers and performed SIT (System integrated testing) and UAT (User Acceptance Testing). Implemented Case Assignment Rules to analyze and organize the cases. Customized Salesforce.com Applications to in corporate business requirements which involved creating Web Forms and processing the data in SFDC with the usage of REST API. Environment: Salesforce.com CRM platform, Workflow and Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Data Loader, Apex, VisualForce, Salesforce 1 platform, Chatter, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, REST API, Case Management Tools. Confidential, Memphis, TN Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Involved in various activities of the project, like information gathering, analyzing the information, documenting the functional and non-functional requirements. Analyzed business needs, distinguish between needs and wants, identify gaps between business needs and standard application functionalities pertaining to all functions of the CRM/CPQ. Developed various custom objects, custom tabs, page layouts, components, Visualforce pages as per the requirements of the application. Deployed validation rules, workflow rules, auto-response rules and approval process to implement the business logic. Created Visualforce pages using AJAX, JavaScript, HTML and CSS. Used JSON as the data format for exchanging information with the platform. Created lookup, master-detail relationships, junction objects and rollup summary fields between the custom objects. Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes and Test classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers, validation rules for various functional needs in the application. Developed various Batch Apex classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable classes on daily basis. Developed Apex triggers, Apex classes and test classes working around the governor limits. Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic. Organized email templates and inbound emails using Visual force for the clients and customers. Composed various Custom Reports for standard objects as well as custom objects to give complete detail overview of Customer (Account) Orders, and Renewal Forecasting. Worked extensively with Cast Iron and Web Services API with force.com to migrate data from the existing system. Integrated Apex with External services by making callouts that used SOAP and WSDL. Involved in implementing Chatter to track feeds, conversations, profiles, and updates. Worked on Salesforce.com Sales Cloud functionality, including Account Planning, Sales Forecasting, Opportunity Management and the CPQ processes. Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects. Executed SOQL queries in workbench and data loader to verify Product /Pricing staging data in SFDC/CPQ. Created user Roles and Profiles and given them Security controls and shared settings. Implemented Salesforce Outlook and Mobile Lite for District Finance Managers. Implemented an AppExchange app bill. ON app to the Salesforce CRM to create automatic bills for all the employees working in the organization. Worked with Dynamic Apex to access S-Objects and field describe information, execute dynamic SOQL, SOSL and DML queries. Designed and developed Visualforce pages as per the business requirements and customized Partner portal using various components. Invoked Apex classes by implementing Apex Scheduler and Triggers at regular intervals and to trigger them at some events. Deployed applications from Sandbox to Production using Change Sets. Created Custom Visualforce components and attributes to override the look and feel of standard Visualforce components. Worked on customization of Visual force to have lightening experience for desktop and mobile applications. Provided support to ongoing salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflow and Triggers. Used Dashboards to keep in track the percentage of sales. Gained Experience in creating test cases from requirements and then transforming them in to Apex Test Classes to ensure proper coverage of Apex Classes and Triggers. Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing. Generated Technical design documents for all development modules. Environment: Salesforce.com, EDW (Enterprise Data Warehouse), Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Cast Iron, AppExchange (Exira, S-Drive), Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Page Layouts, Sandbox data loading, Email Services, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Reports, Dashboards, Sandbox, Windows XP. Confidential, Jacksonville, FL Salesforce Administrator Responsibilities: Implemented platform security based on the Organization security, Session security and Network-based security. Implemented and configured Marketing Campaigns, Campaign Hierarchies, case management, and Lead Queries. Developed and configured the Salesforce.com instances and force.com applications. Worked on Force.com IDE to develop Apex classes, Triggers, Components, Visualforce pages and controller classes to deploy business logic as per the business needs. Automated the process of creating Leads directly from Web and Auto-Response rules. Deployed Apex using Force.com IDE, Force.com Migration tool and Web Services API. Implemented an AppExchange app bill. ON app to the Salesforce CRM to create automatic bills for all the employees working in the organization. Worked with Dynamic Apex to access S-Objects and field describe information, execute dynamic SOQL, SOSL and DML queries. Invoked Apex classes by implementing Apex Scheduler and Triggers at regular intervals and to trigger them at some events. Deployed applications from Sandbox to Production using Change Sets. Created Custom Visualforce components and attributes and Customized the standard objects as per the business requirements by using Visualforce components. Integrated the existing SAP system with force.com platform using Cast Iron. Participated in JAD sessions involving Business Users and Sponsor groups to analyze and understand the business requirements. Supported UAT users before and after Production Release. Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, Data Loader, Workflow, Approvals, Email Services, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Salesforce Sandbox, HTML, Java Script. Confidential, St. Louis, MO Salesforce Admin/Developer Responsibilities: Worked as enhancement team member and performed the roles of Salesforce.com Administrator and Developer in the organization. Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard Objects includingAccounts, Contacts, Reports, Dashboards, EventsandTasks. Developed variousApex classes,Controller classesandApex Triggersfor various functional needs in the application. Developed variousCustom Objects, Formula fields, Master-Detail, Lookup relationships, Tabs, validation rules. Created various Profiles, Roles, and Page Layouts and Configured the permissions based on the organization hierarchy requirements. Designed and deployedCustom tabs,validation rules,Approval Processesand Auto-Responsefor automating business logic. DevelopedCascading Style Sheets(CSS)for creating effects inVisual forcepages. CreatedWorkflow rulesand defined relatedtasks, email alerts,andfield updates. ImplementedPick lists, Dependent Pick lists, lookups, Master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects. Created email templates and inbound emails usingVisual Forcefor clients and customers. EnabledChatterfor the Organization and to effectively communicate with the users in the Organization. Worked with SOQL&SOSL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database. Create various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements. Involved in resolving issues found during Unit Testing & User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Developed business documents for Salesforce.comCustom objects. Worked on different portalslikeSelf Service Portal, Partner PortalandCustomer Portal. Implemented Salesforce.comweb servicesclient usingSales forceweb servicesAPI, Java, XML and partner WSDL. Used Force.com IDE for development of Visual Force Pages, Apex classes, Triggers and debugging and analyzing logs. Developed severalCustom Reports&Dashboardsto better assist managers and report folder to provide report accessibility to appropriate personnel. Provided theto Business usersabout the system. Supported the data migration activities for migrating the data from various business centers and business center users with the support of Saleforce.com. Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Custom Objects, Page Layouts, Force.com IDE, Sandbox data loading, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Reports, Dashboards, Sandbox, Windows 07. Confidential  Java Developer Responsibilities: Developed proto-type test screens in HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript. Designed various UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams with Rational Rose to implement various business requirements. Create and use user-defined data types, user-defined functions, stored procedures and triggers to enforce business rules Involved in developing JSP for client data presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms. Designed and developed Business Delegate Servlets and Objects. Developed Presentation tier as Java Server Pages, Java Applets, DHTML and JavaScript. Maintaining the customer support and customer data from database tables in Oracle database. Developed Session Façade for each module and that calls local Session beans to improve performance. Coded stored procedures for retrieving the data from database. Environment: J2SE, J2EE, Servlets, PL/SQL, JSP, XML, Design Patterns, CSS, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, JavaScript 1.2, UML, Junit, OAS 9i, Javadoc, VSS, Windows 2000 Server, SQL Server. 