SUMMARY Around 6 years of experience on force.com platform as an administrator and a developer and Two plus years of experience on java dat includes Design, Development, Testing and around one year of experience on salesforce Lightning to develop mobile apps and maintain the web sites. Experience in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, requirement gathering, development, deployment and maintenance of web - based object-oriented enterprise applications. Experience in Salesforce Administration, Configuration and Customization, Data Validation, Sales, Customer Service and Support Development team. Experience working across various SFDC implementations covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Chatter & App-exchange applications. Implemented Configuration, Customization and Development with Salesforce.com on Sales Cloud and Service Cloud. Worked on Exact target/Marketing Cloud. Experience working in agile methodology and involved in onsite and offshore coordination. Strong experience in Salesforce Development using Apex and Visual Force. Strong Hands on experience in writing apex Controller classes, batch processes, schedulable classes, triggers, test classes etc. Hands on project experience in developing Lightning Applications and Components. Developed salesforce Lightning applications using Lightening components, controllers, and events and used custom CSS in the components. Good Implementation noledge SOAP API using SOAPUI, Streaming API. Strong Hands on experience with Salesforce Security Features Profile, Permission Sets, OWD, Role Hierarchy, Sharing Rules etc. Extensive experience in designing Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements. Experience in Salesforce.com administration including creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Tasks and Actions. Hands on experience in developing and configuring Reports, Custom Reports, report folders, report extractions, Dashboards for different user profiles based on the requirements. Good Experience in data migration and integration using Data Loader, Import Wizard, Informatica etc. Good understanding of ETL tools such as Informatica, and Apex Data Loader etc. Experience with Single Sign-On technologies (Salesforce Identity, Secure Login or similar) Good noledge in Building Visualforce pages (Google Maps integration), Lightning Framework, Lightning Components. Proven ability in translation of business specifications to technical specifications and always been an TEMPeffective team player TECHNICAL SKILLS Salesforce.com Technologies:  Apex Classes, Force.com, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages/Components & Controllers, CRM VEEVA, Web Services, Lighting Components, Dashboards, Reports, Custom Objects, Workflow rule, JIRA, Bitbucket, Jenkins. Salesforce Tools/Marketing Tools:  Eclipse IDE, Force.com Explorer, CTI, SSO, Apex Data loader, Command Line Data Loader, Lighting Controllers, Force.com Platform (Sandbox, and Production), UML Tools, Ajax tool kit. Pardot, InsideSales.com Programming Languages:  Apex, SQL, Java, Angular JS, Visualforce page, J-Query, SQL, C++ Scripting Languages:  HTML, XML, SOQL/SOSL, Java script, CSS, PERL. Web Services:  WSDL, SOAP/REST API, Service Cloud, Sales Cloud. Databases:  MS Access, MYSQL, SQL server 2000/2012, Oracle 10g/9i. Packages:  Microsoft Outlook, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel, MS Project, MS Visio, Eclipse ID PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Salesforce Developer / Admin Confidential, Seattle, WA Responsibilities: Participated in analyzing the Requirements, preparing the Design documents based on the specifications and Developing and Maintaining the application. Supported leads with insidesales.com dialer by incorporating the leads in to Inside sales Enhanced the campaign member flexibility by giving admins more ability to add new members. Worked as a Pardot Admin and handled the tasks single handedly. Worked in designing salesforce.com application customizations over a wide range of customers. Expertise in matching business process and automation requirements to the capabilities of salesforce.com, including data model, role hierarchy, sharing and security model. Extensive experience in creating automation rules, campaigns and drip programs in Pardot for lead Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com Objects and it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated value files. Working on Salesforce sales cloud, Apttus CPQ tool and Force.com platform to build an Opportunity and Quote/Proposal management module. Integrated with External sources by making callouts dat used SOAP/REST. Created Batch Scheduler to be scheduled at specific time and also run the process on demand to meet the business requirement. Experience working with Force.com IDE &Eclipse IDE in design and development of Custom Application for Complex Business Processes in both Sales and Service Cloud Modules. Used Ant tool, change sets and workbench for deployments. Has written multiple Library functions in CPQ, which would bring ease for the developers. Worked on SOAP & REST API for sending the Opportunities and Accounts to the downstream systems. Strong domain expertise in building and designing CPQ and Quote-To-Cash solutions in Apttus and SAP. Created New Reports, New Dash Boards, and worked on Data Loader by uploading about close to a million records and experienced in cleansing and De-duplicating bulk loads. Created Workflow rules and defined related tasks, worked on mission critical design, time-triggered tasks, email alerts and field updates to implement business logic. Created various Custom Objects, Custom Settings, Custom Labels, Validation rules, Record types, Custom Tabs, Workflow rule and approval process including Field updates and email alerts. Worked extensively on Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Activities and Customized Objects for Layouts, record types and validation rules. Salesforce Developer Confidential, Rockville, MD Responsibilities: Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and created solutions by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com API, and Web Services. Designed, developed and by using Ant deployed the Custom objects, Entity-Relationship data model, Formulas, Validation rules on the objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Roles, Profiles, Public Groups, Permission Sets, Custom Settings and Labels to suit to the needs of the application. Developed interface in Salesforce Community using custom Apex classes, HTML, CSS Class, and components to allow Community Users to create and edit cases as well as submit case comments. Built apps visually with Lightning App Builder, Lightning Components and lightning connect integrations across multiple connection. Implemented Nightly Batch Processes to handle bulk records and scheduled daily jobs using apex scheduler. Experience on integration, integrated Salesforce with different external system, performed both inbound and outbound integration using SOAP as well as REST API. Implement and integrate Salesforce & Pardot (enable features, connectors and data) Created Server APEX Controller for Salesforce Lightning Experience and Added Lightning Component to Lighting Pages and Record Pages. Involved in Integration of Oracle CPQ with EBS for Quote to Order generation via Jitterbit tool Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse. Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, Junction objects, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects. Generated Apex Classes using WSDL and wrote business logic layer for integration with external web services to the system for functional needs. Worked with SFDC and CPQ integration setup. Manage the implementation of all Pardot forms to ensure proper tracking, integration and data quality Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of salesforce.com. Maintenance of installed Managed Packages in Lightning using Apex. Experienced in Data Migration using Data Loader. Worked on Integrating Salesforce systems using SOAP and REST API's. Animated client-side user interface elements on a visual Force page using J-Query. Used Visualforce Templates and Placeholders to encapsulate page elements to be reused across several Visual force pages. Used GitHub for Version Control, Jenkins to deploy Apex code and Involved in all phases of testing. Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Data Loader, SOSL, SOQL, CSS, AJAX, MS Excel, Jenkins, Visual Force Pages, Sandbox, Lighting Controller, SSO, SSIS, Service Cloud, HTML, J-Query, Bit Bucket, Communities, MS Visio, Outlook, JIRA and Eclipse IDE Plug- in. Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Developed use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational rose Developed the application as per the requirements and business rules Part of the team which was responsible for designing and developing the application in n-tier fashion as per struts based MVC architecture standards. Responsible for developing the Registration modules of the wholesale application. Utilized the various J2EE Design patterns to develop the Business modules based on the required functionality. Responsible for developing the application level flow by utilizing Java, JSP and Struts. Responsible for developing the OS specific scripts (Shell Scripts) for automating the closing doc Process. Used JavaScript front end Validations. Developed Session beans and entity Beans representing business logic abstractions. Responsible for testing of application on various levels like integration and System testing by utilizing various methodologies. Environment: Java, JSP, Oracle 8i, Servlets, Apache Tomcat, Java Beans, JDBC, Java Script, HTML and Rational Rose and Dream weaver. 