SUMMARY SIX Years of qualified experience in data modeling and data analysis as a Proficient in gathering business requirements and handling requirements management, Application development andImplementation of Enterprise Data Warehousing and Database. Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including System Analysis, Design, Data Modeling, Dimensional Modeling, Requirements Gathering, Decision Support and Implementation of various applications in OLTP and DataWarehousing. Experienced in designing teh Conceptual, Logical and Physical data models using Erwin and ER Studio Data modeling tools. Having good experience wif Normalization (1NF, 2NF and 3NF) and De - normalization techniques for improved database performance in OLTP, OLAP, Data Warehouse and Data Mart environments. Strong Experience in Entity Relationships & Dimensional Data Modeling to deliver Normalized ERDiagrams, STAR and SNOWFLAKE schemas. Experience in Data transformation, Data mapping from Source to Target database schemas, Data Cleansing, Data Scrubbing, Data Profiling and preparing STTM Documents and maintained data governance. Designed and developed Data Marts by following Star Schema and Snowflake Schema Methodology, using industry leading Data Modeling tools like ERwin and ER Studio. Expert in writing SQL queries and optimizing teh queries in Oracle 9i/10g/11g, Teradata, Sybase and SQL Servers 2005/ 2008/2012/2014 . A very good knowledge wif dealing different types of data sources such as flat files, Excel, Oracle, Sybase, and SQL Server. Experience in creating, maintaining and designing database diagrams, setting table relationships and indexes. Forward Engineering teh Data Models, Reverse Engineering on teh existing Data Models and updates teh data models. GeneratedDDL scripts From teh physical models for implementingDataModeling changes and worked on comparing and merging teh data models Defined teh Glossary and Naming Standards file for teh Data Models Created Erwin reports in HTML, RTF, PDF format depending upon teh requirement. Participated in JAD sessions, created Use Cases, Work Flows and Power Point presentations. Knowledge in NoSQL database technologies used in modern data warehouse architectures. Excellent interpersonal and oral/written communication skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Data Modeling Tools: Erwin r8, Erwin r 9.1/9.5/9.64, Embarcadero ER/Studio, SQL Data Modeler, Sybase Power Designer,MS Visio OLAP Tools: Microsoft Analysis Services, Business Objects Programming Languages: SQL,T-SQL,PL/SQL,HTML,XML, JAVA, C, C++, Python, UNIX and Shell Scripting Database Tools: Microsoft SQL Server 2008/2012/2014, MySQL, Oracle 11g/10g, DB2, MS Access 2007/2010and Teradata V2R6.1, Sybase Packages: Microsoft Office Suite, Microsoft Project 2010, SAP and Microsoft Visio. ETL Tools: Informatica 7.1, Data junction, Data Stage, SSIS. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Portland, Oregon Sr. Data Modeler/Data Analyst Responsibilities: Participated in requirement gathering wif business users to understand and document teh business requirements in alignment to teh financial goals of teh company. Created teh Conceptual Model for teh data warehouse using ERwin data modeling tool. Designed Logical and Physical data models using data provisioning and consumption techniques. Reviewed teh logical model wif application developers, ETL team, DBAs and testing team to provide information about teh data model and business requirements. Normalized teh tables/relationships to arrive at effective relational schemas wifout any redundancies. Developed scripts that automated DDL and DML statements used in creations of databases, tables, constraints, and updates. Designed star schema, snow-flake schema and involved in developing teh data warehouse for teh database. Worked on Forward Engineering to enhance teh data structures of teh existing database and creating new schemas. Worked on Reverse Engineering on teh existing data models and updates teh data models. Participated wif application developers and DBAs to discuss about various Denormalization, partitioning and indexing schemas for physical model. Created naming standards for data attributes and metadata to track data source, load frequency, generated key values, and data dictionary. Used execution plan, SQL profiler and database engine tuning advisor to optimize queries and enhance teh performance of database. Extensively used metadata, data dictionary management, data profiling, data mapping. Generated reports using SQL Server Reporting Services from OLTP and OLAP data sources. Used Model Mart of Erwin for effective model management of sharing, dividing and reusing model information and design for productivity improvement. Worked wif teh ETL team to ensure that teh company's data governing policy was adhered to generated extracts for multiple downstream users. Environment: ERwin 9.2, Oracle 11g, SQL Server 2012/2014, Visual Studio 2012,SQL Developer, Microsoft Visual studio 2008/2012, and MS Office suite. Confidential, Hicksville, NY Data Modeler/Data Analyst Responsibilities: Participated in all phases including Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing and Documentation. Gathered Requirements and performed Business Analysis. Extensively used SQL forDataAnalysis. Done Reverse engineering on existingdatamodel to understand thedataflow and business flows. Designed ER diagrams, logical model (relationship, cardinality, attributes, and, candidate keys) and physical database (capacity planning, object creation and aggregation strategies) as per business requirements. Created Schema objects like Indexes, Views, and Sequences. Translated business requirements into detailed, production-level technical specifications, new features and enhancements to existing technical business functionality. Developed normalized Logical and Physical database models to design OLTP system for insurance applications. Created dimensional model for teh reporting system by identifying required dimensions and facts using Erwin r9.1. Developing teh Data Mart for teh base data in Star Schema, Snow-Flake Schema involved in developing teh data warehouse for teh database. Used forward engineering to create a PhysicalDataModel wif DDL that best suits teh requirements from teh LogicalDataModel. Developed a Conceptual model using Erwin based on requirements analysis. Worked wif Database Administrators, Business Analysts and Content Developers to conduct design reviews and validate teh developed models. Identified, formulated and documented detailed business rules and Use Cases based on requirements analysis. Facilitated development, testing and maintenance of quality guidelines and procedures along wif necessary documentation. Responsible for defining teh naming standards fordata warehouse. Generated ad-hoc SQL queries using joins, database connections and transformation rules to fetch datafrom legacy DB2 and SQL Server database systems. Exhaustively collected business and technical metadata and maintained naming standards. Used Erwin for reverse engineering to connect to existing database and ODS to create graphical representation in teh form of Entity Relationships and elicit more information. Used Model Mart of Erwin for effective model management of sharing, dividing and reusing model information and design for productivity improvement. Environment: ERwin r9/9.1, Oracle 11g, Toad for Oracle 10, Crystal Reports 9, SQL Server 2012/2014, Windows XP, DB2. Confidential Data Modeler/SQL Developer Responsibilities: Gathered and analyzed requirements from teh end users and converted functional specifications to technical specifications documents. Reverse-Engineered numerous existing database schemas to get an understanding of existing database architecture. Created Data Model from scratch which involved a complete life cycle implementation that encompassed business requirement gathering, analyzing their source systems; and tan building financial data mart in order to provide functionality for their reporting purposes. Created conceptual, logical & physical datamodels wif Erwin and did design review meetings wif other team members in order to finalize teh model. To maintain teh consistency and quality of teh data worked wif Data Governance, Data Profiling and Data Quality team that required managing teh master data from all teh business units as well as from IT and ensuring data quality standards across teh enterprise. Developed and maintained enterprise datadictionary by interacting wif datasteward, data governance team. Divided model into subject areas for reflecting understandable view to business as well as datamodel reviewers. Created DDL for physical model using Erwin and handed over to teh DBA team. Environment: ERwin,MS Excel, Oracle 10g, SQL, PL/SQL, MS VISIO, MS-ACCESS. 