SUMMARY 6 years of extensive IT industry experience as Business Intelligence Developer which includes Integration Services (SSIS) wif backend as SQL Server Databases (2012/2008R2). Experienced in developing software based on Waterfall and Agile software development life cycle modeling, which includes development, designing, analysis, coding, testing and implementation. Experienced in database design using normalization form, de - normalization form, entity relationship design model and application-oriented design. Experienced in data modeling (relational, dimensional) and designing diagrams using tools like Visio and SQL diagram. Expert in creating database objects, tables, constraints, Indexes (clustered and non-clustered), views, user defined functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures. Experienced in building SSIS packages involving ETL process, extracting data from heterogeneous files like flat files, excel, CSV files and loading into SQL server data warehouse through Import Export, BCP and Bulk Insert. Experienced in troubleshooting SSIS and Database components. Involved in writing T-SQL queries using SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) and developed a new data warehouse. Experienced in developing, configuring and deploying teh SSIS packages and providing security for teh packages. Expert in designing and creating SSIS packages and SQL jobs for MSBI solution end to end. Experienced in query optimization and tuning using SQL profiler, database tuning advisor, Index tuning wizard and performance monitor for performance tuning. Expertise in managing project versions and source code changes using source control tools like TFS, VSS. Worked on administration tasks such as data loading, batch jobs, configuring IIS, data uploading, backup & recovery, database mirroring, log shipping, user and application table management, upgrades, creating database partitioning, databases/file groups/files/transaction logs. Excellent communication skills both written and verbal, able to track record teh deliverables and deliver teh work wifin timelines. TECHNICAL SKILLS RDBMS: SQL Server 2012/2008R2 Back-end Language: T- SQL Architecture: RDBMS OLTP Performance Tuning Tools: SQL profiler, data tuning advisor, SQL query analyzer ETL Tools: SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) Data Access Mechanisms: ADO.NET, OLEDB BI Tools: SSDT, BIDS Modeling Tools: Visual studio, Visio Repository Tools: TFS, VSS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, New Jersey Business Intelligence Developer Responsibilities: Participated in business and client meetings to collect business requirements, documented functional & non-functional specifications and prepared system requirements specification document. Prepared Use Cases, Functional Flow charts, Data Flow diagrams, and Entity Relationship diagrams to include in SRS which are referred during teh development phase. Involved in all phases of data warehouse development including prototyping, data modelling, analysis, design, development, testing and documentation. Involved in creating teh snowflake schema and structural designs to meet teh existing and forthcomingbusiness plan of action. Create flexible data model design dat is scalable, reusable, while emphasizing performance and business needs. Familiarize teh team wif teh customer needs, specifications, design targets, teh development process, design standards and techniques. Planned and completed delegated tasks wifin agreed timeline wif ambitious standards, identified problems and collaborated wif team to propose solutions in an effort to solve them. Used Agile SDLC approach to complete and track tasks on time. Responsible for creating database objects like table, constraints, Indexes (clustered and non-clustered), views, stored procedures, triggers and functions using T-SQL to store and maintain data efficiently. Involved in writing teh database functional specifications and technical design documents for SSIS packages and reports. Environment: Windows 2003/2008/2012 , SQL Server 2012, 2008 R2, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS). Confidential, Illinois Database Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Analyzing user specifications for workability, completeness and business flow. Took responsibility in designing teh database of teh product as per teh application requirements. Create stored procedures and SQL queries to perform different database operations as per business requirements. Created SSIS packages using SSDT to perform incremental loads from different data sources and databases on to data warehouse. Cleanup scripts written to purge staging tables and metadata after populating data on to teh data warehouse and data marts. Involved in writing teh database functional specifications and technical design documents for SSIS packages and reports. Deployed packages under Integrated Services Catalogs and configured parameters under different environments. Created SSIS packages and scheduled overnight AutoSys jobs and SQL server agent jobs to pick heterogeneous data files. Validate and process teh data, populate data in to teh fact and dimensional table and notify concerned groups through email about teh incorrect data. Environment: Windows 2003/2008, SQL Server 2008, SSIS. Confidential SQL Developer, MS SQL/SSIS Responsibilities: Create stored procedures and SQL queries to perform different database operations as per business requirements. Responsible for creating database objects like table, constraints, Indexes (clustered and non-clustered), views, stored procedures, triggers and functions using T-SQL to store and maintain data efficiently. Transformed data from different data sources like different data bases to SQL Server using OLE DB connection providers by creating various SSIS packages. Used SSIS to create ETL packages (.dtsx files) to validate, extract, transform and load data from ODS to related destination databases. Involved in Analyzing user specifications for workability, completeness and business flow. Took part of responsibility in designing teh database of teh product as per teh application requirements. Creating SSIS packages for importing and extracting data. Scheduling of SSIS packages using SQL agent. Evaluated execution plans, tuned queries and optimized indexes DevelopedSSISETLpackages to validate, extract, transform and load data to data warehouse and data marts Enhanced ETL processes by replacing row by row processing wif bulk loading and added set-based operations where ever possible. Environment: Windows 2003/2008, SQL, ETL, SSIS. Confidential SQL Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for creating database objects like table, constraints, Indexes (clustered and non-clustered), views, stored procedures, triggers and functions using T-SQL to store and maintain data efficiently. Involved in Analyzing user specifications for workability, completeness and business flow. Took responsibility in designing teh database of teh product as per teh application requirements. Created SSIS packages for importing and extracting data. Data cleansing, data quality tracking and process balancing checkpoints. Developed customer retention functionality for teh product. Scheduled and configured SSIS packages using SQL agent. Environment: C#, MS SQL. 