SUMMARY Over 10+ years’ experience Years of experience in development and design of BI methodology for supporting data transformations and processing in a corporate wide BI Solution using Informatica, Teradata, DataStage, Oracle, GreenPlum Worked extensively inData Warehouse and Data Integration projects. Extensive design and development knowledge of transforming unstructured, semi - structured data to XMLs using Informatica DT (Data Transformation) Studio. Thorough understanding of software development life cycle and agile methodology. Strong analytical and logical reasoning ability, problem solving attitude, sound communication skills and customer centric approach. Experience in working on Informatica transformations such as Expression, Aggregator, Filter, connected and unconnected Lookup, Router, Sorter, Union, Joiner, Rank, Sequence generator and Normalizer transformations and re-usable Transformations and Mapplets. Knowledge on different transformations like Parser, Serializer, Mapper and Streamer to covert teh XML documents to a different XML structure or Schema. Good experience of leading a team and managing quality for teh project. Excellent knowledge on Insurance domain. Strong understanding on Enterprise communication area. Excellent experience on working with .JSON files / XML files. Having good hands on experience Xml (Parser & Generator), UDT, Web service (consumer, Source & target) & JMS(Java Messaging Service) Experience in Full Life Cycle of Data Warehousing projects. Extensive knowledge of working in Agile Methodology& closely coordinated with Release Management team in order to control a software build through different stages and environments; including unit testing and deploying software releases. Successful in meeting new technical challenges and finding solutions to meet teh needs of teh client Strategic thinking, solutions and road maps while driving architectural recommendations. Strong Leadership qualities in mentoring and guiding team with best practices. Experience leading Onsite and Offshore team. Experience in defining Process Models, Detail Design Specifications, Logical and Physical Data Models. Subject matter expert in Data Extraction, Transformation, and Loading (ETL) data from different sources using ETL - Informatica Power Center, Informatica Cloud, Informatica Data quality,DATA STAGE, MSQL,Oracle SQL and PL/SQL. Agile with good knowledge of relational datawarehouses like Teradata and exposure to NoSQL database. Working Knowledge of converting HIVE SQL data to Snow flake Database Experience with data analysis, data architecture, data cleansing and data quality. Experience in writing complex SQLs to analyze and troubleshoot teh issues/problems. Knowledge on Informatica B2B Data Transformation Studio to parse teh XML files. Knowledge on Unstructured Data Transformation to integrate B2B service with Informatica Power Center. Experience in Informatica Administration Software Installation/Configuration Excellent in Performance Tuning of ETL and Database. Experience in Scripting (Perl, Bourne Shell) and scheduling jobs using Control M, OPC and Autosys. Experience with Business Objects and OBIEE reports. Expertise in developing and reviewing teh JIRA, TFS, test cases and reporting bugs. Experience in manual testing, which includes Web testing, functional testing, Usability testing, GUI testing, and Regression Testing. Conducted data analysis using SQL Scripts to answer teh questions/ queries by teh Subject Matter Experts. Extensive experience in organizing and facilitating interviews and workshop, with subject matter experts SME, users, and business stakeholders, Experience using MS Visio, MS Project and MS office tools like MS-Word, PowerPoint, Excel, and Access. Documentation of Test Plans, Test Cases, Test Scripts, Test Procedures based on teh Design Good understanding of scripting in Python and pyspark. Re-platform testing and Upgrade smoke testing from Informatica 9.1 to Informatica 9.6. TECHNICAL SKILLS Methodologies:  Waterfall, Agile,UML Scheduling/migrations:  Autosys, Control M, Mainframe Operation planning and control(OPC) Service and Incident management:  Xmatters, Service now, Webstar Project Management:  MS Project, JIRA, Service now, TFS Business Applications:  MS Office Suite - MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, MS Outlook Business Intelligence:  Informatica Power Center,DataStage Migrations and versioning tools:  Harvest, Bitbucket, Jenkins Databases:  SQL Server, MS Access, Teradata, Oracle GreenPlum Operating Systems:  Windows, UNIX Other Tools:  Altova XML SPY, Informatica Data Transformation Studio, Notepad ++, SQL Developer, Toad, Hermes, JMS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Madison WI Technology Lead Responsibilities: Providing design and solutions to requirement stated by Business Analysts and Users. Implementing Solutions using Informatica Power Center and DT Studio. Development of Informatica real time jobs connecting JMS messages queues. Developing Informatica web services. Developing Parsers and mappers using DT studio. Thorough understanding of XSDs Transforming complicated XMLs to simplified XMLs (using a simplified XSD) Involved in knowledge transition, mentoring team and knowledge management. Creation of tools and reusable components wherever possible. Contribution in business value additions. Good Experience with tools dat facilitate agile development such as Jira, Team Foundation Server. Conducted teh gap analysis and analyze various gaps and develop actions to fill those gaps. Reviewed, analyzed, and evaluated business systems and user needs. Documents requirements, defines scope and objectives and formulates systems to parallel overall business strategies. Assist with Sprint testing and user acceptance testing when needed Support project initiatives, including identifying and analyzing preliminary business needs, time and resource estimates, defining teh project scope and objectives and working with business users Responsible to Design Data model, Informatica Mappings for data integration, Development, Administration, implementation of teh system Performing source system data analysis in order to manage source to target data mapping. Work with automation development team to understand teh source and target data models. Work with various business stakeholders to identify their data/information needs. Creating design documents and mapping documents as per requirements Develop, adhere to, and be a proponent for data warehouse development standards, including ETL standards and best practices. Develop a technical work plan and coordinating with development team and projects. Implemented teh best practices for teh creation of mappings, sessions and workflows and performance optimization. Actively worked on resolution of issues in production failures and issues raised by teh clients Conducting quality reviews of design documents, code and test plans. Ensuring on-time delivery and submit teh monthly SLA tracker for teh critical jobs to clients Monitoring teh long running jobs and performing tuning activities to minimize teh run time. Accountable for Unit Testing, Integration testing, Defect analysis and fixing Environment: Team Foundation Server(TFS), Jira, Service now, MS word, MS Excel,MS Power Point, New Relic,Agile., Oracle, InformaticaPowerCenter, Informatica DT Studio, Informatica Developer, UNIX Confidential Technology Lead Responsibilities: Review deliverables for a service request or break fix request. Maintaining Quality code for teh project. Creation of tools and re-usable components wherever possible. Contributing in business value additions. Conducting DataStage trainings on account level and unit level. Deploying teh code, Performance optimization in existing jobs. Designed, involved in Development, implementation of teh system Scheduling and estimation of work. Identify issues and dependencies, escalate them appropriately and bring them to closure. Joining review meetings with teh team members to assess teh completion status on a daily basis. Escalation handling Review of development of ETL Programs and Reports as required. Review of Unit Testing, System Testing and defects tracking. and fixing non-standard table structures and ETL processes Automated daily space monitoring and compression scripts in UNIX. Testing and Coordination efforts for activities like Informatica Migration. Environment: DataStage, UNIX, DB2, Mainframe, Ultra edit, Toad Confidential  Technology Lead Responsibilities: Analyzing and reviewing specifications received from Clients. Designing teh ETL jobs(High Level design and detailed level design) Development of ETL jobs, Unit testing, integration testing and regression testing. Deploying teh code, Performance optimization in existing jobs. Minor enhancement to existing code. Involved in knowledge transition, mentoring team and knowledge management. Guiding and halping team for any technical issue. Working on estimations. Involved in group/peer reviews. Involved in technical automation activities. Designed and developed mapping, transformation logic and processes in Informatica for implementing business rules and standardization of source data from multiple systems into teh data warehouse Maintain cross-business responsibilities by providing end-user support to multiple organizations within teh company. Responsible for source system data analysis, variable gap analysis, data extraction design and coding, and data modeling. Co-ordinated with teh Business Analysts, Data Architects, DM's and users to understand business rules Supporting and participating in business meetings, requirement gathering meetings and issue analysis meetings as requested Conduct quality reviews of design documents, code and test plans. Accountable for Unit Testing, Integration testing, Defect analysis and fixing Testing coordination with functional users and business application teams for any issue Monitoring teh long running jobs for optimizing teh performance. Fixing of teh ongoing issues in Production and providing RCA of teh presently known problems Implemented teh best practices for teh creation of mappings, sessions and workflows and performance optimization. Environment: DataStage, UNIX, DB2, Mainframe, Ultra edit, Toad Confidential  Technology Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for design and development of teh Datastage jobs. Co-ordination with other team members for teh queries/issues which they faced while development & testing of teh Datastage jobs. Involved in developing some proof of concepts (POC) for design improvements. Co-ordinated with teh Business Analysts, Data Architects, DM's and users to understand business rules Supporting and participating in business meetings, requirement gathering meetings and issue analysis meetings as requested Conduct quality reviews of design documents, code and test plans Environment: DataStage 8.X, Unix, Oracle Confidential Technology Analyst Responsibilities: Providing solutions to change request raised by SMEs. Application production support. Development of ETL jobs. Development of Teradata code and utilities (Macros, BTEQ, FastLoad, Mload). Providing minor enhancement (addition/removal of columns etc. to target tables) to teh system based on requests raised by SMEs. Analyzing issues related to any inconsistency or discontinuity of data. Development of scripts for loading teh data into teh base tables in EDW and to load teh data from source to staging and staging area to target tables using Fast Load, Multiload and BTEQ utilities of Teradata. Monitoring teh long running jobs for optimizing teh performance. Fixing of teh ongoing issues in Production and providing RCA of teh presently known problems Implemented teh best practices for teh creation of mappings, sessions and workflows and performance optimization. Actively worked on resolution of issues in production failures and issues raised by teh clients Environment: DataStage, MainFrame, Teradata, MainFrame OPC scheduler, Webstar, JCL, COBOL 