SUMMARY Cognos BI Author with almost 8 plus Years of experience in full life cycle development involving analysis, design, development, deployment, testing, implementation, maintenance and Support of large data warehouse applications in Web - based and Client/Server environment. Involved in requirement gathering from Business users and prepared documentations. Expertise in Administration, designing, development and deployment of Data Warehousing and Business Intelligence applications using COGNOS Suite 8/10.1/10.2, Cognos Enterprise Planning and Cognos Report Net. Experience in IBM Cognos 10.1 and 10.2 BI (Framework Manager, Report Studio, Query Studio, Metric Studio, Analysis Studio, Cognos for MS Office, Cognos Analysis for MS Excel, Dynamic cubes, Active reports, Business Insight, WorkSpace advanced. Expertise in Framework Manager Data Modeling (Physical Layer, Business Layer, Logical Layer) and Complex Report building with Report Studio. Strong Knowledge with Power play Transformer model design and Power play cube building. Reviewed teh Cognos Framework Manager model developed in development environment by other team members. Expertise in designing and creating various analytical reports to halp users to identify critical KPIs and facilitate strategic planning in teh organization using Cognos. Good Experience with MDX Functions in Report Studio using Multi-dimensional Sources Performance tuning by analyzing and comparing teh turnaround times between SQL and Qlikview. Extensive experience using Cognos for MS Office and Cognos Analysis for MS Excel. Deployed teh Cognos Framework Manager model from development, test environment to production environment. Experience in Data Warehousing and ETL tools using Informatica Power Center and SSIS. TEMPHas experience in data modeling using Erwin, Star Schema Modeling, and Snowflake modeling, FACT and Dimensions tables, physical and logical modeling. Involved in creating and working with PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers. Experienced in Developing Data Marts, Star Schema, Snowflake Schema, Extract, Transform, and Loading of Data, Requirement Gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Documenting and Implementation of Business Applications. Check performance issues for reports to make sure to use best sources to reduce production expenses from Business Objects and Cognos. Proficient at developing and implementing training programs to enhance teh efficiency, competency and motivation levels of teh employees in line with organizational objectives. Ability to write and maintain technical documentation to describe Reports development, logic, coding, testing, changes, and corrections. Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, technically competent and result-oriented with strong problem solving skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Reporting Tools: Cognos11x, 10x, 10.2.2 10.2.1 , 10.1.2 and 8x (Report Studio, Framework Manager, Dmr, Query Studio, Analysis Studio, Event Studio, Metric Studio,CognosConnection),CognosReportNet 1.1 MR2 (Report Studio, Query Studio, Framework Manager,Cognos,CognosImpromptu 7.0/7.1/6.1,CognosPowerPlay, Transformer 7.0/7.1,CognosQuery 7.0/7.1, Metrics Manager.Cognos8.3,Cognos8.4.Cognos10, Java Script Operating Systems: Windows95/98/2000, Windows NT 4.0, and Linux/Unix Languages: SQL, PL/SQL and DB2 Data Modeling Tools: CognosFramework Manager 10.2, 10.1.1, PowerPlay Transformer Databases: Oracle, MS-SQL Server, DB2 and MS-Access. ETL Tool: CognosData Manager 10/8.4/8, Microsoft SSIS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Chattanooga, TN Cognos BI Consultant Responsibilities: One of teh onshore coordinators for teh application tracking status, documenting issues, reviewing offshore deliverable on regular basis. Supporting to outline project plans, component developments by working on various Proof of Concept’s, monitor project goals, line up data and interface requirements with offshore team. Contribute in Requirement Analysis and for teh enhancements for various critical complex reports. Work with Systems architects to closely analyze data modelling in framework manager from Operational Data warehouse tables. Analyzing highly complex data models for querying to cross reference it with report generated query to ensure report validity. Working with Cognos 11 to working test teh reports built in 10.2.1 Creating Dashboards and Data modules in Cognos 11 and assessing limitations. Creating impact assessment document for teh Cognos 11 and provided recommendation for upgrades. Implemented dash boarding / charting capabilities, and built various scorecards using report studio. Granting and revoking access to various users in Cognos environment and updating location hierarchy and ensuring consistency in user's access to teh application. Created query studio reports as per teh requirements of teh business users. Training Corporate Accounting team to use Cognos Workspace Advanced and Assisting them in Report Validations against teh Management Reporter form Great Plains. Deployed framework packages and reports to test and production environments. Created a complex Bursting Approach of teh Vendor Scorecard for Vendor Portal. Built Complex Cube in Cognos and created Active reports for various Ecommerce reporting purposes. Environment: Cognos 10.2.1, Cognos SDK, Cognos 11, Cognos Transformer 10.2, SQL Server BI (SSIS, SSRS), Oracle, Toad, MS Access, Share point, Informatica, Jira ticketing, Windows Server 2003. Confidential, Huston, TX Cognos BI Developer Responsibilities: Onshore coordinator for teh application tracking status, documenting issues, reviewing offshore deliverable on regular basis. Assisting to define project plans, component development sizing, monitor project goals, align data and interface requirements with clients and offshore team Contribute in Requirement Analysis for teh enhancements for various critical financial reports. Work with financial systems architects to closely analyze upstream and downstream systems for enhancing teh application models. Creating and updating various documentations required according to Sarbanes-Oxley standards for various for releases of teh application. Analyzing highly complex data models for querying to cross reference it with report generated query to ensure report validity. Working with business users to design and develop Cognos reports using Report Studio with complex joins unions and data drill-down and slice-and-dice options. Monitoring job failures and handling Infrastructure tasks on development and test environments. Implemented dash boarding / charting capabilities using report studio. Granting and revoking access to various users in Cognos environment and updating location hierarchy and ensuring consistency in user's access to teh application. Created query studio reports as per teh requirements of teh business users. Deployed framework packages and reports to test and production environments. Environment: Cognos 10.1 (Report Studio, Query Studio, workspace advanced, Business insight, Analysis Studio, Framework Manager, Autosys, Cognos SDK, Oracle, Dell Toad, Unix, Share point, Informatica, SNOW ticketing, Windows Server 2003. Confidential, Philadelphia, PA Cognos Developer Responsibilities: Involved in gathering and analyzing requirements and preparing teh Specification document as per teh Business requirement. Translated teh business requirements to system requirements. Traced teh high-level business and user requirements to functional requirements and low level Use Cases. Created both relational and dimensional (DMR) Meta data models using Cognos 10.1 Framework Manager. Creating star schema grouping for better understanding of teh model & facilitate multi-fact (cross-fact) reporting. Created teh reports using charts like Pie, Bar, Line etc. Charts are used in making reports more user-friendly in analysis purposes. Created daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly reports for teh management team based on teh Customer requirements. Setting up cardinality (minimum, maximum & optional), Determinants to avoid double counting, support loop joins, optimize data source, and identify dimensions and facts. Implementing concept of hierarchies by defining dimension (regular, measure) to enable analysis on relational data source. Implemented different types of hierarchies (balanced, unbalanced, ragged). Expertise in developing active reports by using Cognos 10.1 Developed numbers dashboard reports using Active reports. Adding business rules by defining different kinds of calculations and filter. Creating prompts with query macros by including references to parameter maps. Developing teh reports using various templates like list report, Cross-tab Report and Chart Report using Report Studio and Query studio. Created simple and Complex reports with multiple prompts using Report Studio. Worked on bug fixing and enhancements to existing Cognos reports in Report Studio& models in Framework Manger and development of any new Reports. Performance tuning by analyzing and comparing teh turnaround times between SQL and Cognos. Tested and validated report output against teh database to measure performance of reports. And Created Scorecards and metrics by using metric studio. Import and export statements are used in writing teh SQL scripts. Environment: Cognos 10.1/10.1.1 (Report Studio, Query Studio, work space advanced, Business insight, Analysis Studio, Framework Manager, Cognos for MS Office, Cognos Analysis for MS Excel, DMR modelling, dynamic cubes, Active reports), IBM Open Pages GRC, Qlikview 10.0, Access Manager, SDK, TM1, Teradata 14, Datastage, Transformer, DB2, Unix, Windows Server 2003. Confidential Cognos Developer Responsibilities: Installed and configured Cognos Report Net and development work was been done in Windows-based Cognos 8. Gathered business requirements by conducting user interviews and documented their query, business analysis and reporting needs. Worked with teh ETL informatica team, suggesting teh transformations required for reporting and teh getting teh data calculation and data items created at teh database level. Involved with teh ETL informatica team in data extraction, Transformation and loading data from various sources like Oracle, SQL Server and Flat files. In Framework Manger Database layer resembles mostly Star Schema (sometimes worked with views and stored procedures) and business view includes user understandable tables and columns. While creating Framework Manager Model, worked on different possibilities like segmentation, links and shortcuts etc., to get teh best model for teh business. Created stored procedures and views and imported into Framework Manager to create some complex reports. Extensively used conditional block sections for creating multiple queries in a single CognosReportNet Reports for reuse and layout. Responsible for creating teh Cubes and Reports and Scheduling them accordingly Worked on complex reports using Static Prompt and mdx functions and union conditions Integrated CognosPowerPlay Cubes and Reports with Cognos Connection. Responsible for publishing PowerPlay Cubes to upfront using PPES to provide end users with a single, Web-based point of personalized access to reports. Environment: Cognos 8, Series7 (PowerPlay Transformer, PPES, Access Manager, Upfront and all Server Administration), Informatica Power Center v6.2, Tomcat 5.1 application Server, Java, DB2, PeopleSoft HR/Financials, UNIX (AIX). Environment: Cognos 8.4 Report Studio, Query Studio, Analysis Studio, Informatica, FM, HP Quality center 11 Bug tracking tool, Teradata 12, RELAY, Share point, Oracle SQL server 9i, Windows XP. Confidential SQL Server Developer Responsibilities: Actively participated in gathering Business Requirements that are focused on providing a user-friendly System usage or ambience. Created new database logically and physically designed to fit new business requirements. Created various database objects Tables, Indexes, Views, SQL Joins, and Triggers Writing T-SQL queries, Views, Stored Procedures, and User Defined Functions. Filtered bad data from legacy system using complex T-SQL statements, implemented various constraints, and triggers for data consistency. Used DBCC Utilities for Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, and Client Server Connectivity & Database consistency checks. Planned teh complete backup (with teh suitable recovery model) of various Databases. Creates technical specifications, test plans and test data to support ETL processes Customers Insurance Policies were formatted for creating reports that are deliverable to teh policy holders and teh manager. Developed different types of tabular reports, matrix reports, chart and graphs, crystal reports that aggregate data using SQL Server Reporting Services. Worked with report parameters and performed Parameterized and cascading parameterized reports using SSRS. Created OLAP cubes using KPI's for analyzing financial trends before and after company mergers and created calculated members using MDX and DAX. Environment: MS SQL Server 2005/2008, T-SQL, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, Business Intelligence Development studio, Erwin, Excel, Windows 2003, Visual Studio. Confidential Reporting Analyst Responsibilities: Designed Functional Requirement Specifications for report development, modified relationships between different database tables and building models using Framework Manager. Developed Data warehouse design, Implemented Staging, QA and Prod Environments. Customized Cognos Connection with appropriate reports and security measures Involved in Designing DMR models with Relational Data using Framework Manager and deployed packages to teh Report Servers. Implemented Framework manager security for Data access, Object level access and Package access based on teh Organization Level. Created User groups, Roles in Cognos Connection to implement teh Security Features. Created Ad-hoc, List, Crosstab, Charts and Drill through Reports by using Query Studio and Report Studio. Created dynamic filter by using Value prompts, Cascading prompts and Tree prompts. Involved in teh Deployment of reports from Dev to Production Involved in Conditional Formatting like highlighting teh data and to show or hide teh data. Customized Cognos reports based on user specifications. Involved in Performance Tuning of teh reports. Developed a cube-based interactive scorecard for daily bookings, billing and inventory backlog. Created a sales scorecard to track teh discount percentage metric, which was having a major impact on teh generated revenue. Updated teh reports according to teh client requirements. Involved in teh Testing of teh reports. Implemented security with LDAP and Group level security in Cognos connection portal. Demonstrated and Trained Query Studio to various users and Developed various presentations. Developed SQL Scripts for testing teh reports & developed Stored Procedures to build teh Reporting Database for Exclusive Reporting. Environment: Cognos 8.4, 8.3 and 8.2 (Framework Manager, Query Studio, Report Studio, Analysis Studio, Metric Studio and Event Studio), Cognos Report Net 1.1 MR2, Cognos Impromptu, PowerPlay 7.2, Cognos Transformer 7.2, Oracle 9i/10g (SQL, PL/SQL), SQL Server 2008 