SUMMARY Over 5+ years of experience in analysis, design, testing, development, documentation and implementation of Business Intelligence Applications using Cognos BI tool. Experienced in various Cognos tools such as Cognos 11,10 BI Suite (Framework Manager, Report Studio, Cognos Connection, Metric studio, Query Studio, and Event Studio), Report Net, Impromptu, Power Play Transformer; Impromptu Web Reports(IWR), Access Manager, and Cognos EP series 7. Experience in Cognos BI Server Installation and Configuration, configuring database server and web server connectivity for use wif Cognos. Adept at creating metadata wif relational model and dimensional model from data marts using Framework Manager. Experience in developing medium to complex Congo’s reports using data from various internal databases in SQL Server and Oracle. Develops medium to complex Cognos reports using data from various internal databases in SQL Server and Oracle. Experienced in migrating reports from Impromptu to ReportNet. Extensive experience in developing detailed functional documents and technical design for reports. Experience in upgrading reports from Cognos 8 to Cognos 10. Experience in developing customized templates for uniformity in reporting. Developed BI reports extensively in report studio by creating various Drill - Throughs, Cross-Tabs, Dashboards, Master Detail and Summary reports. Experience in working wif business intelligence tools dat included system analysis Experience in data warehousing principles and experience generating reports from large data sets Experience in creating scorecards by using Metric Studio for performance evaluation. Experience in creating dynamic dashboards wif analytical knowledge and best practice to meet the business needs. Expertise in reporting using Star schema model. Experience in Tableau reporting. Extensively used Cognos 11,10.x features like Conditional Blocks, Master Detail, Drill through Bookmarks, Conditional Formatting, HTML, Cascading Prompts and Tree Prompts. Developed various kinds of prompts and filters to increase retrieval speed wifout compromising on the scope of the reports. Proficient in Performance Optimization of reports and Multidimensional Cubes. Expertise in creatingdatabases, users, tables, triggers,macros, views, stored procedures, functions, Packages, joins and hash indexes in Teradata database. Extensively worked wif Teradata utilities likeBTEQ, Fast Export, Fast Load, Multi Loadto export and load data to/from different source systems including flat files. Hands on experience using query tools like TOAD, SQL Developer, PLSQL developer, TeradataSQL Assistantand Query man. Experience in writing complex SQL queries 5 years of experience working wif visualization tools like Tableau and OBIEE. Has good understanding of Tableau architecture, design, development and end user experience. Extensive experience in Tableau Desktop, Tableau Server and Tableau Reader in various versions of Tableau 6.x/7.x/8.x,10.x. Extensive knowledge in various reporting objects like Facts, Attributes, Hierarchies, Transformations, filters, prompts, Calculated fields, Sets, Groups, Parameters etc., in Tableau. Worked on the development of Dashboard reports for the Key Performance Indicators for the top management. Experience in creating different visualizations using Bars, Lines and Pies, Maps, Scatter plots, Gantts, Bubbles, Histograms, Bullets, Heat maps and Highlight tables. Expertise in Pareto charting, advanced calculations, work wif demographic and geographic fields. Experience in creating ODBC, XML, Native Metadata Data source connections. Experience in setting up Security prototype for Cognos Business Intelligence environment by incorporating data level, object level and package level and report level security. Adept at using relational databases like Microsoft SQL Server, Teradata and Oracle wif Cognos. Has a clear understanding of Data Warehouse architecture and building Dimensional Models. Very good in writing SQL queries for data validations. Strong Experience using PL/SQL and MDX in development and testing of reports, analyzing data in tables, Cardinalities between tables and joining tables. Good knowledge of Software Life Cycle Development process, wif focus on Agile Scrum, Waterfall and Iterative mythology. Expertise in OLTP/ OLAP system study, analysis, E-R modeling and developing database schemas like Star schema and Snowflake schema. Knowledge in SAP BW, SAP BO, SAP HCM, OBIEE, SAS. Performed Unit testing (White box testing) for the developed codes and provided signoff from the Dev box before moving to QA environment. Involved in deploying the code from Dev to QA, QA to UAT and from UAT to Prod. Quantitative Finance background wif strong mathematical aptitude and deep research skills. Extensive knowledge of sales, marketing, supply chain and finance KPI’s. Experience in interacting wif end users, SMEs and BAs to gather requirements for reporting. Excellent oral and written communication skills. Excellent team player wif self-motivation and experienced in task prioritizing and time management. TECHNICAL SKILLS BI Tools:  IBM Cognos 11.0.10, 10.2.1/10.2/10.1 , Cognos 8.x Cognos Connection, Report Studio, Query Studio, Analysis Studio, Metric Studio, Framework Manager, Event Studio, PowerPlay Transformer, Cognos Workspace Advanced, Cognos Workspace, Business Insight Advanced, Business Insight and Framework Manager. Cognos TM 1 9.4/10.1/10.2.2 Tableau 9.x SDLC Methodologies: Waterfall, Iterative, Agile/Scrum Databases: MS SQL Server 2008/2012, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2, MS Access, Sybase ASE/IQ Teradata 14, 13, V2R12, V2R6 Database Tools:  TOAD, Rapid SQL, Query Analyzer, SQL Developer, SQL Assistant Data Modeling:  ER/Studio 3.5/4.0, Erwin 7.3/4.1, Power Designer ETL Tools: DataStage, Informatica Power Center, Ab Initio, SSIS QA Tools: HP ALM, Quality Center 11/10, Rational Clear Quest Languages:  SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, DHTML, JSP Web Servers: IIS, Apache Web Server Operating Systems:  Windows 2000/NT/XP/Vista/7/8, Server 2003/2008/2012 UNIX, Ubuntu PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Chattanooga, TN Cognos Modeler/TM1 Developer Responsibilities: Worked in multiple phases of Software Life Cycle starting from the requirement analysis to production delivery. Single point of contact for client for all reporting & database questions/concerns. Created and published packages for different subject areas wif best practice, using Data Source Query Subjects, Model Query Subjects and Stored Procedure Query Subjects in Framework manager. Created DMR model wif Dimensions and Hierarchies for providing drill downs & ups in Analysis Studio. Created list, crosstab and chart reports and implemented drill-though conditions and Master-Detail relationships. Used various kinds of prompts like Value Prompt, Date and Time prompt, Cascading Prompts, etc. for better performance, also worked wif customized prompts using HTML Items. Extensively used filters, calculations, conditional variables, multiple queries for data extraction in reports. Created conditional variables to change the graph headers and list column headers based on the user parameter selection. Created multiple Report Pages usingPage Breaks and grouping/sorting. Created Burst Reports, distributed and scheduled reports in Cognos Connection. Used Union, Intersection, Except, and Join between queries in query explorer. Developed several active reports of Dashboard wif tab control in Report Studio Deployed reports, models and cubes from Development to Test and Production environments. Developed Stored procedures and user defined functions using PL/SQL. Performed Unit testing and data validation of various reports dat were developed in Cognos. Involved wif making changes in the reports generated as business requirements changed and carry out validation and verification of the reports. Carried out performance tuning of reports, both on data base side and Cognos report and modeling side. Used Business Workspace / Insights and Business Workspace / Insights Advanced to arrange individual reports into dashboards. Worked on generating various dashboards in Tableau Server using different data sources such as Teradata, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server and Microsoft Analysis Services. Performed Tableau type conversion functions when connected to relational data sources. Maintained and Installed Tableau Server in all the environments. Created incremental refreshes for data sources on Tableau server. Ability to authoring on Tableau server by changing mark types and adding filters directly in a web browser. Administered user, user groups and scheduled instances for reports in Tableau. Developed the free form SQL reports, reports, standard reports and Dashboard reports. Hands-on development assisting users in creating and modifying worksheets and data visualization dashboards. Created report schedules, data connections, projects, groups in Tableau server. Extensively used Tab dmin and Tabcmd commands in creating backups and restoring backups of Tableau repository. Installed and Configured Cognos TM1 and various components. Created dimensions, cubes and processes using TM1 architect for Finance department. Developed User Interfaces, Reports, Rules and Turbo Integrator processes using Cognos TM1 for Expenses, Revenues, Salary and Compensation, Headcount, Budget Variance and Summary. Worked wif creating Business Rules dat perform calculations, such as average price, currency conversions, and price/earnings ratios in TM1. Validating data and Comparing in TM1 prospective excel and in TM1 web wif Cognos Report Studio. Trained resources on TM1 and Cognos. Managed and designed the Cognos BI and TM1 integration for reporting and analysis. Creation of rules using the rules editor and adding Business Rules to Cubes. Scheduling of TM1 process for data population. Loading and Maintain Data in Cube using Turbo Integrator. Optimize the Rule Performance by adding SKIPCHECK and FEEDERS. Integrated TM1 cubes wif Cognos 10.2, Cognos 11.0.10 and used as a source to build BI reports in Report Studio. Environment: Cognos 11.0.10,10.2.2, 10.1 (Report Studio, Query Studio, Analysis Studio, Event Studio, Cognos Workspace, Cognos Workspace Advance), Tableau 9.1, Tableau Server v8/v7, Teradata 14/12, Teradata SQL, Free Form SQL, SQL Assistant, Cognos TM1 10.2.2, Turbo Integrator, TM1 Architect, TM1 Web, Framework Manager, Oracle 11g, and SQL Server 2005/2008, Informatica, TFS Version Control. Confidential Cognos Developer/TM1 Developer Responsibilities: Analyzed the functionality and business requirements and transformed the Functional Design Document into Technical Design Document. Conducted User Interviews and documented their query, business analysis and reporting needs. Understood data and business logic wif reporting viewpoint. Installed Multi-Server Dispatcher Cognos installations for Dev/QA/Pseudo Prod/Prod Environments. Install/setup Cognos 10.1 software, Upgraded the Cognos 8.4 content to Cognos 10.1 Troubleshoot upgrade problems/fix issues. Created projects, designed models for reporting and created & published packages in Framework Manager from various data sources. Used Dimensional modeling (DMR) and Snow flake / Star Schema modeling technique to develop models. Implemented Row Level Security in Framework Manger, Data Level, Object Securities and Package Level Security in Framework Manager Models. Designed Reports using most of the Report studio features (Conditional Formatting, Conditional Page layout, Sections, Page Breaks, Master-detail, Drill Through, Drill Down, and Drill Up). Developed complex Report Studio reports and Dashboard reports wif dynamic drill down, expand collapse, on-click sort, Freeze headers & footers, hiding the same page prompts etc., using HTML, Java Scripts, Conditional formatting, stored procedure etc. Used Business Insight and Business Insight advanced to create the dashboard report widgets and other user interface functionalities. Developed and distributed complex Active reports using report studio for the senior management. Created and managed agents using Event studio, which monitors the data and performs the task when an event occurs. Developing OLAP Analysis Studio views of analysis from dimensional modeled packages. Conducted training sessions to help users generate reports to meet their daily reporting needs. Creation of dimensions cubes and processors using TM1 architect. Creation of rules using the rules editor and adding Business Rules to Cubes. Scheduling of TM1 process for data population. Loaded and Maintained Data in Cube using Turbo Integrator. Optimized the Rule Performance by adding SKIPCHECK and FEEDERS. Analyzed all reports and standardizes these reports using Power Prompts and Charts. Used Cognos Connection for scheduling and bursting reports across the Business segments and provided additional security to published cubes as well as reports. Developed the mapping specifications from the business requirements and the data model. Involved in data modeling and design of the data warehouse. Environment: Cognos 8.4, 8.3 (Framework Manager, Query Studio, Report Studio, Analysis Studio, Metric Studio, Business Insight and Event Studio), Cognos Transformer 8.4, Oracle10g, SQL Server 2008, Toad. Confidential Cognos Developer/Administrator Responsibilities: Installed and configured the Cognos 8.4 /10.2.2 BI applications wif its complete suite of tools. Installed and configured Framework Manager Client tool to build metadata models for the reports. Provided overall administration, configuration, security, and maintenance for the Cognos environment. Monitor system utilization and performance, troubleshoot and contact IBM support when problems arise, plan and test for system patches or upgrades, and offer new ideas for improvements. Installed fix packs or hot site on Cognos 8.3/8.4, Cognos 10. Setup Cognos Custom roles based on business user requirements for power users and consumers. Troubleshoot the environment in case the BI server goes down, if not contacted the DBA in case of the down time of the content store database. Configured Single Sign-on for Cognos 8.3/8.4/10.1/10.2. Involved in reviewing business requirements and analyzing data sources form Excel/Oracle SQL Server for design, development, testing, and production rollover of reporting and analysis projects wifin Tableau Desktop. Worked closely wif business power users to create reports/dashboards using tableau desktop. Designed and developed various analytical reports from multiple data sources by blending data on a single worksheet in Tableau Desktop. Utilized advance features of Tableau software like to link data from different connections together on one dashboard and to filter data in multiple views at once. Created Prompts, customized Calculations, Conditions and Filter (Local, Global) for various analytical reports and dashboards. Security validation of user access/Data source access through Cognos Access Manager. Involved in Requirement gathering from Business Users. Analyzed the requirements provided by the clients and Developed specification documents for reports as per client requirements. Developed new reports in Report Studio upon requests from business users. Created and published Packages using Framework Manager. Implemented data level security, object level security and package level security using the Framework manager and Access manager. Designed & developed multiple reports using various templates like list reports, crosstab reports, chart reports, and complex reports wif conditional blocks, static choices in prompt. Extensively used various Prompts, Drill-through, master-detail relationships, conditional formatting, grouping and sorting features, layout calculation of Report Studio to generate efficient and user-friendly reports. Deployed packages, folders and reports from a development environment to Testing and Production environment. Resolved issues resulting from User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Interacted wif the End users on a regular basis for resolving issues pertaining to the reports. Created list, crosstab and drill through reports for departments like claims, billing, and members/subscribers. Created Burst Reports and Multilingual Reports based on groups of users & Preferences for our various partners. Defined hierarchies according to business requirements for Drill ability. Created some Complex interactive reports using conditional formatting. Environment: Cognos 10.1, 8.4, Tableau Desktop 7, Tableau Server, Teradata SQL, Free Form SQL, Teradata V212, SQL Assistant, Business Objects, Transformer 8.4, Report Studio, Query Studio, Event Studio, Analysis studio, Oracle 11g, DB2, SQL Server 2008/2012, HP Quality Center 10.0, Remedy, TOAD. Confidential Reporting Analyst Responsibilities: Designed Functional Requirement Specifications for report development, modified relationships between different database tables and building models using Framework Manager. Developed Data warehouse design, Implemented Staging, QA and Prod Environments. Customized Cognos Connection wif appropriate reports and security measures Involved in Designing DMR models wif Relational Data using Framework Manager and deployed packages to the Report Servers. Implemented Framework manager security for Data access, Object level access and Package access based on the Organization Level. Created User groups, Roles in Cognos Connection to implement the Security Features. Created Ad-hoc, List, Crosstab, Charts and Drill through Reports by using Query Studio and Report Studio. Created dynamic filter by using Value prompts, Cascading prompts and Tree prompts. Involved in the Deployment of reports from Dev to Production Involved in Conditional Formatting like highlighting the data and to show or hide the data. Customized Cognos reports based on user specifications. Involved in Performance Tuning of the reports. Developed a cube-based interactive scorecard for daily bookings, billing and inventory backlog. Created a sales scorecard to track the discount percentage metric, which was having a major impact on the generated revenue. Updated the reports according to the client requirements. Involved in the Testing of the reports. Implemented security wif LDAP and Group level security in Cognos connection portal. Demonstrated and Trained Query Studio to various users and Developed various presentations. Developed SQL Scripts for testing the reports & developed Stored Procedures to build the Reporting Database for Exclusive Reporting. Environment: Cognos 8.4, 8.3 and 8.2 (Framework Manager, Query Studio, Report Studio, Analysis Studio, Metric Studio and Event Studio), Cognos Report Net 1.1 MR2, Cognos Impromptu, PowerPlay 7.2, Cognos Transformer 7.2, Oracle 9i/10g (SQL, PL/SQL), SQL Server 2008 