SUMMARY Senior Consultant, Project Manager, Business Analyst and Agile Scrum Master possessing Over FIFTEEN years of experience in Banking, Financial Services & Insurance (BFSI) Domain having served diverse financial clients in areas of Asset Management, Custody, Brokerage, Corporate Action, KYC/AML, Securities Lending & Collateral Management, Transaction Reconciliation, Counterparty Accounting & Settlement, Wealth Management reporting, Retail Banking (retail, loans, deposits and IRA) and Insurance (Life Insurance) with fair understanding of Mortgage (Loan Origination and Servicing), Cards (Risk Management) and Banking ERP. Extensive experience in projects associated with Regulatory and Compliance areas with regulations from Dodd - Frank, CCAR (FRY14, FFIEC & Call reports), IHC, Basel III, Confidential, FED, PRA, CFTC & FINRA on projects like Cost Basis, Dodd-Frank - Confidential 165, Reg CC, Basel 239 analysis and reporting, FDSF Retail for PRA (UK) and form N-PORT & EDGAR Online enhancements for Confidential . Project Management expertise (Over FOUR years) in managing resources, task and budgets for new initiatives and system enhancement projects with medium & large teams in onsite/offshore implementation models focusing on resources, task, schedules, milestones and burn management. Scrum Lead/Manager (Over ONE year) managing data warehouse and compliance reporting project. Interacted with Business SMEs and Product Owners including Actuaries, Risk & Compliance VPs, President and ‘C’ level executives on project statuses and communications. Directed matrix teams comprising of Jr. BAs, Developers, and Testers on SDLC engagements including data analyst and Enterprise Architects with SMEs. Experienced in various SDLC phases with proficiency in Waterfall, RUP, and Agile methodologies. Proficient in business processes (‘AS-IS’ and ‘TO-BE’) using GAP Analysis, Risk/Impact Assessment, Process / Project Feasibility Study to achieve end state requirements and drafting Concept/Business Case/Process/Target Documentation, IA, BRD, FRD, Vision and Scope Document (VSD), UI/Screen Prototyping, RTM, Test Plans, UAT, Product Release Notes and RACI Charts/Project Milestone Tracker. Good understanding of business processes for asset classes like Listed and OTC Derivatives, Equities, Mutual Funds and Fixed Income along with exposure to Securities Reference Data Management (SRDM) with sources like Bloomberg, Eagle Pace, DST HiNet, Gloden Source with good knowledge of FPML and XML. Extensively worked on proprietary vendor products like ‘InvestOne' (fund accounting) & ‘GlobalOne’ ( Confidential Lending & Collateral Mgt) from SunGard, ‘MaxIT' (Cost Basis) from Scivantage, ‘Risk Analytics’ (Risk Management) from Moody’s. Also, was exposed to Actimize (AML), Fi-Serv UMA, Charles River IMS, Metavante (Trust Mgt) and OFSAA GUI during project execution. Extensive experience in reporting, data mapping using SQL across databases (Oracle and Teradata) and running ad-hoc queries and usage of reporting tools like Crystal Reports, Qlikview and Tableau. Sound knowledge of BI reporting tools like COGNOS, Tableau, QlikView and exposed to MDM suite from AB-Initio and COLLIBRA. TECHNICAL SKILLS BA Tools: Rational ReqPro, BluePrint, MS Office, Balsamic Mockups, Pencil (OS), iRise. SDLC Methodologies: RUP, Agile, Scrum, Waterfall. Agile Tools: Rally, Version-One, JIRA. Testing Tools: HP Application Lifecycle Management (ALM), IBM Synergy. Business Modeling: MS Visio, Rational Rose, Business Modeler. Languages: UML, BPML, HTML, XML. Web Technologies: MS FrontPage, Dreamweaver. Database: Oracle, Teradata, Sybase, MySQL. Reporting: Tableau (10.9), QlikView, Crystal Reports. CMS: SharePoint, Alfresco CMS (OS). Data Governance: Ab Initio MDM, COLLIBRA GRC. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, West Chester - PA Business Solutions Analyst/Consultant Responsibilities: Created user stories for development and application engineering team in VersionOne for different epic and streams of teh project. As an Agile lead, Managed scope, prioritization and acceptance criteria’s with teh Product Owners (Actuaries and Risk team) and reporting deliverables, progress on stories and conducting retrospective meetings/team celebrations on milestone delivery. Define requirements by interviewing multiple actuaries and Risk stakeholders to understand teh requirements in teh form of Use Cases, Functional Specifications, Prototypes and Calculation Metadata. Provided data rules and processing logics for landing, staging, calculations and reporting schema with attributes, calculations, and rules for outputs from teh OFSAA suite. Performed due-diligence and gap data analysis for current and historical data prior loading into OFSAAI and coordinated direct feeds from different BUs. Created a framework for defining and maintaining data dictionary using Collibra tool as a Data Steward and followed up with Data Management Council on steps to remediate issue mitigations. Maintained data lineage, definitions and database specification/changes in Collibra with each incremental release covering teh data specifications, user access and other classifications. Defined complex reporting requirements from Actuaries using excel prototypes and by siloing attributes and calculation for teh development team. Facilitated Oracle Calls for OFSAAA schema enhancement and maintained decisions/logs. Synergized with teh development team to create reporting menus for generating self-serve reports using Tableau clusters with standard cohorts for user experience studies covering lapse, mortality, and partial withdrawals across Annuity and CBVA business LOBs in Confidential . Environment: SharePoint, MS Visio, HP ALM, Oracle OFSAA, Tableau Reporting, Collibra, Version One and other internal SoR. Confidential, Washington, DC Lead Business Analyst Consultant Responsibilities: Decomposed proposed regulation "N-PORT" rule into REQ, FRD, and DCS. Conducted requirement elicitation meetings with IM Division, Office of Information Technology (OIT), Legal & Compliance (LC) and other business groups for file submission reporting and Confidential 's back office reporting systems. Assisted business groups in deciphering legal content with business parlance leading to analysis and insight of N-PORT regulation. Introduced iRISE prototyping and mockup tools in requirement phases to transition from Waterfall to Semi-Agile SDLC Methodology. Managed new data creation and it’s alignment with DERA mandated data and governance process/guidelines. Facilitated meetings and partnered with Confidential ’s BA COE to develop iRise requirements, SOP guidelines and by delivering reusable master widgets across all EDGAR Online (EOL) and UI intensive forms. Environment: iRise, SharePoint, MS Visio, HP ALM and other internal SoR. Confidential, NYC, NY Lead Business Analyst Responsibilities: To report REIT LoB’s Credit Risk reporting under bank's FDSF reporting in accordance with Prudential Reg Authority, UL and to provide inputs from upstream systems into teh Moody’s Risk Analytics (RAY) platform supported by QlikView (QV) Reporting dat covered 7 LOB’s and 18 applications with attributes & entities from teh MDM repository. To document requirements dat adhere to Risk Weighted Avg (RWA) and Non-RWA reports for Mortgage & Non-Mortgage for REIT LoB through Historical data, MI and RWA calculations following PRA UK guidelines. Designed and documented business controls and checks, rule validations, system mappings, calculations, data reconciliations and change decision logs relevant to teh regulatory reporting. Reviewed and analyzed FDSF data for RWA/Non-RWA, MI reporting against historical submissions, including QoQ analysis and variance checks to identify/resolve errors originating from hosts/RAY/Qlickview systems. Performed data analysis by querying source data and calculations for ad-hoc periods and provided decisional information to validat calcs from teh hosts and teh target systems. Applied financial product knowledge and understanding of regulatory guidelines (Basel III, US LCR) and liquidity measurements (LCR, NSFR) to determine potential impact on teh lob/bank’s balance sheet. Dealt extensively with data lineage for all 7 LoBs and documented data dictionary with characteristics and calculations to eliminate duplication. Participated in vendor software customization with Moodys for configuration changes, requirements, analysis, mapping, and stakeholder sign off on teh primary documentation/outputs. Supported Program Management with weekly statuses on planned activities, deviations, issues, queries, milestones and escalations for reporting to senior management. Performed functional testing and logged defects in HP QC and re-test fixes for QV. Environment: Oracle, Moody’s Risk Analytics, QlikView (QV) Reporting, HP QC, SharePoint. Confidential, Wilmington, DE Business Analyst/PM Responsibilities: Acquired broad understanding of Enhanced Prudential Standards (EPS), Dodd-Frank Section 165, and Intermediate Holding Company (IHC) for Foreign Banking Organization (FBO). Elicited business and IT requirements to provide technology solution for bank's FBO-IHC program dat complies with S.165 of DFAST. Created new data requirements post comparing other regulatory reporting documentation to eliminate duplication from data sources/feed and thus maintained living documentation on Data Governance SharePoint site. Analyzed and documented regulatory requirements from BIS & Confidential, roadmap and frameworks for Reg Data-Mart program covering implementation plan, feature requirements for Data Sourcing, Extraction logics for Reg DataMart and maintaining Master Data mappings. As a Business Product Owner, actively participated in daily Agile Scrum meetings, coordinated Release Planning, provided User Stories and escalated issues for schedule adherence, backlogs, and plans in coordination with teh Scrum Masters, Product Owners, Business stakeholders and Scrum of Scrums (SoS). As a Module Project Manager, defined project scope, goals and deliverables with project task, resourcing, and budgeting using appropriate project tracking tools, fund utilization, project burndown charts along with teh project progress, risks, and challenges with contingency plans for teh Steering Committee and teh Finance team. Environment: Oracle, RALLY (Agile Tool), SharePoint. Confidential, Wilmington, DE Lead Business Analyst Consultant Responsibilities: Interacted with Senior Management on scope analysis and to provide teh estimates, statuses, and issues on report decomposition relating to BASEL S.239 compliance. Onboard, train, assign and reviewed report decomposition approaches with teh team members and presented methodologies to senior management. Validate decomposition approach for teh Cards LOB with Accenture and Confidential SMEs based on teh directions outlined in Confidential .239 of teh BCBS act relating to data lineage and recording for accuracy and risk mitigation. Reviewed and analyzed codes for attribute and SoR across diverse systems to derive lineage and report them into teh Accenture template. Interacted heavily with teh business and IT team to resolve queries and logged defects for SOR. Coordinated with various stakeholders globally for additional documents about system access, reporting logic, requirement gathering and review of teh reports submitted by Chief Risk Officer (CRO) to teh board of Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). Compared, created and maintained data lineage for Cards LoB in Ab-Initio Meta Data Management (MDM) platform to retain consistency from process documentation by working with data stewards. Environment: Oracle Essbase, Business Objects, SAS, Other internal SoR and Ab-Initio MDM. Confidential, Charlotte, NC Lead Business Analyst Responsibilities: Interacted with Marketing and other Business stakeholders to understand Voice of Customer (VOC) and identify customer requirements dat enhances ALLY’s market position Conducted JAD sessions for project feasibility and business requirements Documented Use Cases (UC), System Specifications, Navigation flows and Mobile prototypes in Azure. Coordinated with various BUs and stakeholders for system requirements, product integration documentation, testing and implementation of teh systems. Validated metrics and evaluated release candidates based on Testing and Development release cycles. Documented list of FIS APIs used throughtout teh transaction workflow including teh errors and issues. Also interacted with FIS on technical changes. Environment: Clarity, SharePoint, MS Visio, Azure, FIS. Confidential, Stamford, CT Senior BA Consultant Responsibilities: Read teh legal requirements and rules to classify 4000+ business entities into Dodd Frank compliance framework Validate data against business entities and updated management with deliverables post analysis of BU’s located globally. Validate records and transactions from Legal Structure Database (LSDB) on business entity setup services offered by UBS. Documented Standard Operating Processes (SOP) and a template dat outlined teh methodology followed towards assessing BU's for Dodd-Frank compliance. Environment: LSDB, SharePoint. Confidential, Merrimack, NH Lead Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Worked with Product Owners cum stakeholders to elicit requirements, scope definition, prioritization and teh release plans. Created processes and system data flow for Checking, Brokerage and Sweep accounts incorporating guidelines from Reg DD for front-middle-back office functions. Adhered all aspects of teh Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and KYC Programs including Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), Cash transaction management, suspicious activity reporting (SAR) and customer identification requirements leveraging household data for historical frauds and risk using Actimize feeds and other market databases to derive household risk score. Documented flows with upstream-downstream files from Actimize, Householding and Customer databases for customer/household fraud history validations and to calculate risk assessment score for determining earliest fund availability. Created mock-ups for Web and Mobile messages for Deposits and transaction processes in iRise. Documented high-level test scenarios and test conditions to satisfy Reg CC requirements. Environment: Tools: Visio, SharePoint. DB2, GRE, Actimize CDD, iRise. Confidential, Baltimore, MD Lead Business Analyst - PM Responsibilities: Documented requirements by performing GAP analysis including BRD, Use Cases and other project documentation (project charters, capacity load, budget allocation) to balance stakeholder needs and negotiate tradeoffs between scope, schedule, budget, quality, and risk. Documented minutes and gained buy-in from groups on project scope, constraints, approach, impact, and schedule by performing and delivering critical path analysis. Designed project organization chart, governance structures, RACI and RAID Metrics to resolve issue management and Requirement Prioritization Matrix (RPM) for scope priortization and scheduling. Conducted stakeholders meeting and JAD sessions for Process Documentation, created Process models in Visio and Wireframes for teh Web application. Used semi Agile/Scrum methodologies with teh development team and blend of Waterfall cum Agile with teh stakeholders Access data from Reference data sources like Eagle Pace, DST HiNet & Bloomberg for Equities and FI asset classes. Environment: Visio, Balsamic Mockups, Dream Weaver, Blue Print, IBM WebSphere Process Modeler, DotNet, Oracle 10G, Alfresco Document Management Systems, SRDM: Charles River, Eagle Pace, DST Hi-Net, Bloomberg. Confidential, Richmond, VA Sr. Business Consultant Responsibilities: Conducted user scheduled interviews cum requirements sessions and published BRD, FRD, Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, OOD (Object-oriented Design) using UML and Visio. Conducted Product Backlog Grooming sessions to improvise teh requirements, user stories, and teh functionalities delivered at teh end of each sprint cycles. Documented database source & target systems, teh volume of data, staging areas, transfer methods, and reports as part of conversion activities. Interacted with Scrum Product Owners, Scrum Masters, Data Stewards and senior management in tracking/resolving data lineage and requirements for mortgage data warehousing program. Environment: Teradata, SQL, Rational ReqPro, HP Quality Center. 