SUMMARY Over 8+ years of experience in IT industry, including 7 years of experience in Salesforce CRM platform as an Administrator and Developer. A Salesforce Certified professional with expertise in Requirement Gathering & Analysis, Estimation & planning, Business Process Mapping, Solution Design, Hands - on Implementation, Testing, Support & Project management on Salesforce Platform End to End expertise in developing and implementing business logic in Sales, Service, Marketing Clouds. Hands-on-experience in configuring of Custom Objects, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Pick List, Search Layouts and Role Based Page Layouts. Proficiency in Administrative tasks like Creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Permission Sets, Email Services, Approvals and Activities. Implemented permission sets, sharing rules, created reports and scheduled dashboards. Extracted reports to various formats. Excellent understanding of Org hierarchy, object level security, field level security, record level security and sharing rules. Designed and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions, Web Services and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application. Designed and developed SOAP based web services to integrate Salesforcewith different external systems. Experienced in building Custom Applications that includes administration, configuration, implementation and support experience with Salesforce.com platform. Good noledge in migrating Salesforce Classic to Salesforce Lightning to support business process with new environment and hands on Experience with Salesforce lightning components, Salesforce Lightning Builder and Used Salesforce LDS to develop UI. Hands on experience in querying the SFDC database using SOQL and SOSL queries, and governor limits. Experience in Realizing the Business Requirements to Design on Salesforce.com Platform by Designing Required Entities like Creating Relationships/Junction Objects like Master-Detail, Lookups, Entity Relationship Data Model, Pages, Classes, Interfaces, Workflow rules, Triggers, Email Alerts and Business Logic. Well versed with APEX SOAP/ REST API, Bulk API, Streaming API for integration and data manipulation. Worked with ApttusSupport team on DocuSign and Pricing Issues. Having good noledge on EINSTEIN Analytics Apps which uses present data and estimates future actions. Experienced with different tools for deploying projects using standard Change Sets and Force.com Migration Tool. Excellent noledge in customizing standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, Price books, Cases, Leads and Campaigns. Involved in CPQ (Configure, Price& Quote) design and mapped to the Salesforce custom objects also in Apttus Support team on DocuSign and Pricing Issues. Extensive experience in Object Oriented Programming languages and OOAD concepts and HTML, XML, CSS, JSP. Extensive Experience of Agile Scrum Methodology for software development processes. Experience with MVC and OOP (Object Oriented Programming) concepts. Good noledge of developing Web based Applications using J2EE frameworks like Spring 3.0, Hibernate ORM. Monitoring and addressing system related defects by the business. Extensive noledge in using different JavaScript frameworks as jQuery and Angular JS. Good experience in interacting with business users, business analysts for requirements capturing, analyzing and documenting and letting business users no constraints with the salesforce limitations. Articulate in written and verbal communication along with strong interpersonal skills, a good team player with ability to work effectively with all levels of organization and individually as well. TECHNICAL SKILLS Salesforce Technologies: Salesforce CRM, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visualforce Pages / Components, S-Controls, Apex Web Services, AJAX, Lightning, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects. Salesforce Tools: Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Force.com Data Loader, Force.com Excel Connector, Force.com Platform (Sandbox, and Production) QTP and Sand box testing. Languages: C#, Java/J2EE Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, Angular.js Database: Oracle 9i/10g, MySQL. ETL/Integration Tools: Force.com, Data loader, Force.com Workbench, Jitterbit Data Loader Java/J2EE Frameworks: Spring 3, spring MVC, Hibernate ORM Microsoft Tools: Microsoft project, Microsoft Visio, Import Wizard. Tools: Git, SVN, Bitbucket, Jira, Jenkins, Maven Development Environment: Developer Console Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile Methodology PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Des Moines, IA Salesforce Developer/Administrator Responsibilities: Worked as an enhancement team member and performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator. Attended meetings and interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements for salesforce.com CRM implementation Developed Lightning apps using Lightning Components and made them compatible with salesforce1 mobile app. Worked on building Lightning Components by applying SLDS (Salesforce Lightning Design System) and embed these components in Visualforce pages. Upgraded from Salesforce Classic to Salesforce Lightning. Creating Lightning Components and used Salesforce Lightning Design System (SLDS) to convert existing Visualforce pages to lightning components. Created many Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the mail merge for different standard and custom objects in Lightning experience. Created various Reports (Summary reports, Matrix reports, pie charts, Dashboards, and Graphics). Developed Visualforce Pages using different components and using Angualr.js, HTML5, CSS3. Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application using the Eclipse IDE. Implemented Salesforce Lightning Components for small set of users for customizing reports and dashboards. Defined objects and field level security for different objects. Worked on service cloud implementation. Worked on Community cloud to connect with customers and employees with each other. Followed Agile & Scrum methodology for the execution of day to day work related activities. Maintained and customized Salesforce.com scopes such as users, roles, profiles, groups, accounts, contacts, record types, sharing rules, custom objects, pick lists and page layout customization to support vital business functions. Worked on converting Salesforce classic VF pages into Lighting using Lighting components and Lightning App builder. Written Apex REST API Web Service classes to automate the end to end flow. Developed and executed marketing campaigns using Marketing Cloud’s Email Studio Worked with business process owners to understand their requirements for Salesforce Marketing Cloud application Implemented Service Cloud including Service Console, Customer Portal & Communities, Case Feed, Knowledge Base and Entitlements. Involved in writing triggers to process incoming service e-mail requests from customers to automatically create new case records. Implemented visual force pages with custom controller, standard controller, controller extension and standard set controller. Developed various Batch Apex classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable classes. Configure Salesforce and marketing cloud integration user along with configuration in salesforce. Designed, setup and maintained Salesforce standard objects, custom objects and junction objects, while also structuring user roles, security profiles and workflow rule. Responsible for writing SOQL & SOSL queries with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects. Involved in Data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to SalesForce.com Objects and fields. Performed Bulk Data Migration from Applications to Salesforce using Import Wizard, Excel Connector, Data loader, Workbench, Apex Data Loader utility and ETL tools. Developed different Visualforce Pages to suit to the needs of the application using different Visualforce components. Environment: Saleforce.com CRM platform, Force.com Sites, Apex, Visual force, Custom Component Lightning Component, Reports, Sandbox, Workflow & Approvals, Pages, Data Loader, HTML, CSS, Angular.js, REST, SOAP, Community cloud, Reports, Service Cloud, Sales Cloud Einstein, Custom Controllers, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, web Services. Confidential, Charlotte NC Sr. Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements. Used field level security along with page layout to manage the visibility and accessibility of fields for different profiles. Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, opportunities, Reports and Dashboards. Created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements. Developed and Customized User interface in Salesforce.com using Visualforce, Apex controllers and Force.com IDE. Implemented Email-to- Case, Case Escalation rules, Case Assignment rules for service request automation. Worked on SOQL and SOSL statements within custom controllers, extensions and triggers by following the Governor limits in Salesforce.com. Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex triggers, API integration for various functional needs in the application using the Eclipse IDE. Managed Service Cloud components including Service Console, Partner portal, Call Center, CTI integration, Customer Portal, Live agent, Knowledge Base and Entitlements Designed, developed and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visualforce Pages to suit to the needs of the application. Used Salesforce Einstein Analytics a cloud-based platform for connecting data from multiple sources and sharing those in apps. Regularly keeping track on client’s requirement to achieve their organization business goals. Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic. Worked closely with senior management on a Specific track to meet goals and Documented process work flows reflecting interactions between all software within IT identifying how information is processed and wat forms of communications are used. Involved in migrating the data from Oracle database to Salesforceapplication using Apex Data Loader, also used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Sales force Objects. Responsible for Continuous Integration(CI) and Continuous Delivery(CD) process implementation using Jenkins and Project Management tool as JIRA. Individually worked on creating and implementing the Web-TO-Case functionality to solve and track customer issues. Participated in the training sessions provided by the Salesforceteam. Environment: Salesforce.com, Einstein Wave Analytics, Security Controls, Assignment rules, Escalation rules, Record types, Custom objects, Ape, Community and Partner Portals, Visualforce Pages, Jenkins, Jira Tooling API, Eclipse IDE. Confidential, Memphis, TN Salesforce Developer/Administrator Responsibilities: Designed and developed Visualforce Pages to meet various functional needs. Created the company profile, set up new users, defined roles and set up public groups, involved in setting up field level access for each custom object created based on the user's role within the Organization. Utilized Apex Classes, Controllers and Apex Triggers for various company specific functional needs in the application. Worked with Approval processes that used Email Approvals and Parallel Approval steps. Created Dashboards and Dashboard Components and implemented multiple levels of Dashboards and scheduled Dashboard refresh. Designed Validation Rules along with Roll-Up Summary Fields to maintain data quantity and data consistency. Worked as administrator to maintain Application Level Security and involved in discussions to implement System Level Security configured Single Sign-on. Created Custom objects, fields according to the requirements of business which are useful in the validation of entitlements Good experience in development and maintenance of Sales & Service clouds. Implemented the requirements onSalesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse. Worked on SOQL and SOSL queries. Closely worked withSalesforce.com consultants for implementing the business solutions for their client requirements. Strong noledge of sales, marketing, service and support automation Communicating with executive management on project status and overall project progress against target. Worked on variousSalesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, and Reports and developed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components and user Dashboards. Involved inSalesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the objects to match the functional needs of the organization. Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects. Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail page and edit pages. Created workflow rules and defined related actions, time triggered tasks, email alert, field updates to implement business logic. Built package.xml and deployed components to sandbox and production instances using Force.com ant migration tool, Workbench and Change Sets. Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Workflow and Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Tabs, Email Services, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Components and Controller, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Sandbox, Workbench, Data Loader. Confidential, St. Louis, MO Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Developed Visualforce Pages, Visualforce Custom Controllers Components, Advanced Search Functionality, Custom Objects, Analytic Snapshots, Tabs, Tags and Components. Customized several Validation Rules, tasks, Workflow rules, Triggers, Apex classes to achieve the complex business functionality. Managed different cases on the console using Service Cloud. Responsible for the creation of custom Apps, and Reports using the Salesforce CRM cloud computing model. Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom buttons, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages. Developed Custom Objects, Custom Reports and configured the Analytic Snapshots to dump the data on regular basis for the sales performance Experience in ETL Methods for integrating data feeds on Salesforce cloud. Worked with Dynamic Apex to access Objects and Field values based on user inputs, execute dynamic SOQL, SOSL and DML queries. Public groups, Queues, Case Teams, Sharing Settings Deployment using Change Sets. Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from (SFDC) Salesforce.com subjects. Used it to read, extract and load data from CSV files. Performed Apttus CPQ related configuration for product setup, approval matrices, approval rules, process builders and flows and created CPQ process using Apttus CPQ and CLM AppExchange tool in Quote. Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic. Involved in Data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to SalesForce.com Objects and fields. Used Tabular, Summary and Matrix reports to create Standard reports and Custom reports. Created Dashboards and Dashboard Components and implemented multiple levels of Dashboards and scheduled Dashboard refresh. Worked in agile methodology and participated in daily meetings and presentations in the organization. Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Apttus CLM, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflows, Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, HTML, Java Script, Java, Web Services, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Confidential, Richardson, TX Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Performed the role of Salesforce.com Developer in the organization. Worked closely with SalesforceCRM sales cloud as per the project requirement. Responsible for customizing Salesforce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Cases, Reports and Dashboards. Involved in SFDC Setup activities and customized the apps according to the functional needs of the organization. Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, junction objects, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects. Worked with standard objects in customer and partner portals. Designed, developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex Triggers for different functional needs in the application. Created several workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic. Created Visualforce pages with responsive design using company CSS and style-sheets with the halp of jQuery and static resources. Developed SOQL and SOSL queries to get data from different related objects. Developed APEX triggers, Apex classes for various functional needs in the application. Good Knowledge in utilizing Force.com API's such as REST, SOAP, Metadata and bulk. Installed Salesforce AppExchange Apps, configured and maintained user security permissions in accordance with organizational requirements. Created and used different HTML Email templates. Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in pages ofSalesforce.com. Developed Visual Force Pages, Visual Force Custom Controllers Components, Custom Objects, Reports, Analytic Snapshots. Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force pages, Apex Language, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Security Controls, HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, Web Services, Sandbox. Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in various internal releases of the application and supported the application modules during testing and pre-production phases. Involved in the overall system analysis, design, development, and documentation. Used JDBC to connect and perform operations on database. Created SQL queries and Stored Procedures for CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) operations on database Involved in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using UML for designing the application. Eclipse was used as Integrated Development Environment (IDE). Developed and deployed Servlets and JSP's on Tomcat server. Designed and developed the Web-based User Interfaces, JavaScript, HTML and CSS. Contributed in the system study to understand the functionality of the current system Requirement Specification document. Used log4j for logging messages, CVS as Version Control, and ANT for Build automation tool. Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers. Developed application code using Core Java and J2EE (Servlets, XML) in Eclipse tool. Played an active role in testing the application by writing test cases for different. Environment: Java 1.4 SDK, JDBC, J2EE, JavaScript, Tomcat server, HTML, CSS, XML, UML, SVN, log4j, CVS, ANT, Eclipse. 