SUMMARY Senior Consultant, Project Manager, Business Analyst and Agile Scrum Master possessing Over FIFTEEN years of experience in Banking, Financial Services & Insurance (BFSI) Domain having served diverse financial clients in areas of Asset Management, Custody, Brokerage, Corporate Action, KYC/AML, Securities Lending & Collateral Management, Transaction Reconciliation, Counterparty Accounting & Settlement, Wealth Management reporting, Retail Banking (retail, loans, deposits and IRA) and Insurance (Life Insurance) wif fair understanding of Mortgage (Loan Origination and Servicing), Cards (Risk Management) and Banking ERP. Extensive experience in projects associated wif Regulatory and Compliance areas wif regulations from Dodd - Frank, CCAR (FRY14, FFIEC & Call reports), IHC, Basel III, Confidential, FED, PRA, CFTC & FINRA on projects like Cost Basis, Dodd-Frank - Confidential 165, Reg CC, Basel 239 analysis and reporting, FDSF Retail for PRA (UK) and form N-PORT & EDGAR Online enhancements for Confidential . Project Management expertise (Over FOUR years) in managing resources, task and budgets for new initiatives and system enhancement projects wif medium & large teams in onsite/offshore implementation models focusing on resources, task, schedules, milestones and burn management. Scrum Lead/Manager (Over ONE year) managing data warehouse and compliance reporting project. Interacted wif Business SMEs and Product Owners including Actuaries, Risk & Compliance VPs, President and ‘C’ level executives on project statuses and communications. Directed matrix teams comprising of Jr. BAs, Developers, and Testers on SDLC engagements including data analyst and Enterprise Architects wif SMEs. Experienced in various SDLC phases wif proficiency in Waterfall, RUP, and Agile methodologies. Proficient in business processes (‘AS-IS’ and ‘TO-BE’) using GAP Analysis, Risk/Impact Assessment, Process / Project Feasibility Study to achieve end state requirements and drafting Concept/Business Case/Process/Target Documentation, IA, BRD, FRD, Vision and Scope Document (VSD), UI/Screen Prototyping, RTM, Test Plans, UAT, Product Release Notes and RACI Charts/Project Milestone Tracker. Good understanding of business processes for asset classes like Listed and OTC Derivatives, Equities, Mutual Funds and Fixed Income along wif exposure to Securities Reference Data Management (SRDM) wif sources like Bloomberg, Eagle Pace, DST HiNet, Gloden Source wif good knowledge of FPML and XML. Extensively worked on proprietary vendor products like ‘InvestOne' (fund accounting) & ‘GlobalOne’ ( Confidential Lending & Collateral Mgt) from SunGard, ‘MaxIT' (Cost Basis) from Scivantage, ‘Risk Analytics’ (Risk Management) from Moody’s. Also, was exposed to Actimize (AML), Fi-Serv UMA, Charles River IMS, Metavante (Trust Mgt) and OFSAA GUI during project execution. Extensive experience in reporting, data mapping using SQL across databases (Oracle and Teradata) and running ad-hoc queries and usage of reporting tools like Crystal Reports, Qlikview and Tableau. Sound knowledge of BI reporting tools like COGNOS, Tableau, QlikView and exposed to MDM suite from AB-Initio and COLLIBRA. TECHNICAL SKILLS BA Tools:  Rational ReqPro, BluePrint, MS Office, Balsamic Mockups, Pencil (OS), iRise. SDLC Methodologies:  RUP, Agile, Scrum, Waterfall. Agile Tools:  Rally, Version-One, JIRA. Testing Tools:  HP Application Lifecycle Management (ALM), IBM Synergy. Business Modeling:  MS Visio, Rational Rose, Business Modeler. Languages:  UML, BPML, HTML, XML. Web Technologies:  MS FrontPage, Dreamweaver. Database:  Oracle, Teradata, Sybase, MySQL. Reporting:  Tableau (10.9), QlikView, Crystal Reports. CMS:  SharePoint, Alfresco CMS (OS). Data Governance:  Ab Initio MDM, COLLIBRA GRC. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, NJ Data Lineage Consultant Responsibilities: Review project structure, scope and identify data sources for building reporting and data analytic capabilities wif liquidity risk management (LRM) Contribute to solution design to develop single system for liquidity risk analytics and reporting dat agrees to onboard controlled data from various source systems and in line wif the strategic initiatives dat covers current business products offerings and strategic applications. Identify and research Liquidity Risk Data elements and the source systems dat contribute to the CDEs. Draft BRDs and MAP-GAP Assessment for data mapping issues. Understand, interpret and document the bank's data flows, in line wif the DMO methodology and framework Analyzed complex SQL queries and store procedures of in scope CDEs and document complex calculation logics in the DGO Requirements Template Perform data analysis to identify and correct data problems using MS Excel functions like VLOOKUP, Pivots etc. Deliver system requirements wif lineage details including data hops, data movement, business process, system database, table & columns into Collibra. Remediated data gaps by consulting SMEs and documented the updated lineage template. Analyzed complex SQL queries of in scope CDEs to identify critical elements, complex calculation logics and capture them in standard requirements template Reported scope additions wif new CDEs from GAP study assessment to build new data sources to QRM dat supports Reg-reporting. Prepared business cases and socialized wif stakeholders for acceptance. Maintained project tools in accordance to ePMO methodology (Sharepoint/Project Portal, Application Mappings, Requirements, CDE statuses in Collibra). Supported the management of Enterprise Business Glossary and got data fixes done by DEV on issues like data quality, invalid values, etc. Served as point of contact for mapping related issues and mentor new team members on legacy and new system architecture Prepared user manuals and training documents for processes and procedures, workflows and reports implemented in Collibra. Conducted trainings on data lineage and DGO practices for business teams and other stakeholders. Confidential, Charlotte NC Analytics Consultant Responsibilities: Review report instructions and processes for key logic for the sourcing, classification, and/or transformation of reportable balances and resolve errors for potential issues if any. Resolving data quality issues and reviewing reports for GL mapping and adjustments for alignment to reporting instructions and source data. Perform data element profiling leveraging sourcing logic to aggregate reporting data and document in Collibra. Review SHRP (outstanding issues) and tag potential issues to additional reports based on RE overlap (Connecting-The-Dots (CTD)). Communicate wif Technology and EDG teams on a regular basis to ensure report refresh and enhancements. Provide status updates and other key metrics to the leadership & other key stakeholders. Develop training material and provide training and overview to stakeholders and team members as needed Update requirements and data lineage for data discrepancies based on the Reporting Element and Transaction/Schedules. Maintain TEMPeffective communication channels wif various stakeholders and assist them by responding to queries wif relevant information promptly. Environment: SharePoint, Tableau, Collibra, Oracle, Misc. SoR & MS-Office. Confidential, West Chester - PA Project Mgr - BA Responsibilities: Created and managed user stories for development and application engineering team in VersionOne for different epic and streams of the project. Managed burnout ratio and reporting for stakeholders to provide implementation oversight, team velocity and milestones. As an Agile lead, Managed scope, prioritization and acceptance criteria’s wif the Product Owners (Actuaries and Risk team) and reporting deliverables, story progress, and conducting retrospective meetings/team celebrations on milestone delivery. Managed budget allocations and planning for the project deliverables/milestone chart. Represented project benefits, milestones for enhanced funding requirements wif stakeholders. Define requirements by interviewing multiple actuaries and Risk stakeholders to understand the requirements in the form of Use Cases, Functional Specifications, Prototypes and Calculation Metadata. Provided data rules and processing logics for landing, staging, calculations and reporting schema wif attributes, calculations, and rules for outputs from the OFSAA suite. Performed due-diligence and gap data analysis for current and historical data prior loading into OFSAAI and coordinated direct feeds from different BUs. Created a framework for defining and maintaining data dictionary using Collibra tool as a Data Steward and followed up wif Data Management Council on steps to remediate issue mitigations. Maintained data lineage, definitions and database specification/changes in Collibra wif each incremental release covering the data specifications, user access and other classifications. Defined complex reporting requirements from Actuaries using excel prototypes and by siloing attributes and calculation for the development team. Facilitated Oracle Calls for OFSAAA schema enhancement and maintained decisions/logs. Synergized wif the development team to create reporting menus for generating self-serve reports using Tableau clusters wif standard cohorts for user experience studies covering lapse, mortality, and partial wifdrawals across Annuity and CBVA business LOBs in Confidential . Environment: SharePoint, MS Visio, HP ALM, Oracle OFSAA, Tableau Reporting, Collibra, Version One and other internal SoR. Confidential, Washington, DC Lead Business Consultant Responsibilities: Decomposed proposed regulation "N-PORT" rule into REQ, FRD, and DCS. Conducted requirement elicitation meetings wif IM Division, Office of Information Technology (OIT), Legal & Compliance (LC) and other business groups for file submission reporting and Confidential 's back office reporting systems. Assisted business groups in deciphering legal content wif business parlance leading to analysis and insight of N-PORT regulation. Introduced iRISE prototyping and mockup tools in requirement phases to transition from Waterfall to Semi-Agile SDLC Methodology. Managed new data creation and it’s alignment wif DERA mandated data and governance process/guidelines. Facilitated meetings and partnered wif Confidential ’s BA COE to develop iRise requirements, SOP guidelines and by delivering reusable master widgets across all EDGAR Online (EOL) and UI intensive forms. Environment: iRise, SharePoint, MS Visio, HP ALM and other internal SoR. Confidential, NYC, NY Lead BA Responsibilities: To report REIT LoB’s Credit Risk reporting under bank's FDSF reporting in accordance wif Prudential Reg Authority, UL and to provide inputs from upstream systems into the Moody’s Risk Analytics (RAY) platform supported by QlikView (QV) Reporting dat covered 7 LOB’s and 18 applications wif attributes & entities from the MDM repository. To document requirements dat adhere to Risk Weighted Avg (RWA) and Non-RWA reports for Mortgage & Non-Mortgage for REIT LoB through Historical data, MI and RWA calculations following PRA UK guidelines. Designed and documented business controls and checks, rule validations, system mappings, calculations, data reconciliations and change decision logs relevant to the regulatory reporting. Reviewed and analyzed FDSF data for RWA/Non-RWA, MI reporting against historical submissions, including QoQ analysis and variance checks to identify/resolve errors originating from hosts/RAY/Qlickview systems. Performed data analysis by querying source data and calculations for ad-hoc periods and provided decisional information to validat calcs from the hosts and the target systems. Applied financial product knowledge and understanding of regulatory guidelines (Basel III, US LCR) and liquidity measurements (LCR, NSFR) to determine potential impact on the lob/bank’s balance sheet. Dealt extensively wif data lineage for all 7 LoBs and documented data dictionary wif characteristics and calculations to eliminate duplication. Participated in vendor software customization wif Moodys for configuration changes, requirements, analysis, mapping, and stakeholder sign off on the primary documentation/outputs. Supported Program Management wif weekly statuses on planned activities, deviations, issues, queries, milestones and escalations for reporting to senior management. Performed functional testing and logged defects in HP QC and re-test fixes for QV. Environment: Oracle, Moody’s Risk Analytics, QlikView (QV) Reporting, HP QC, SharePoint. Confidential, Wilmington, DE BA PM Responsibilities: Acquired broad understanding of Enhanced Prudential Standards (EPS), Dodd-Frank Section 165, and Intermediate Holding Company (IHC) for Foreign Banking Organization (FBO). Elicited business and IT requirements to provide technology solution for bank's FBO-IHC program dat complies wif S.165 of DFAST. Created new data requirements post comparing other regulatory reporting documentation to eliminate duplication from data sources/feed and thus maintained living documentation on Data Governance SharePoint site. Analyzed and documented regulatory requirements from BIS & Confidential, roadmap and frameworks for Reg Data-Mart program covering implementation plan, feature requirements for Data Sourcing, Extraction logics for Reg DataMart and maintaining Master Data mappings. As a Business Product Owner, actively participated in daily Agile Scrum meetings, coordinated Release Planning, provided User Stories and escalated issues for schedule adherence, backlogs, and plans in coordination wif the Scrum Masters, Product Owners, Business stakeholders and Scrum of Scrums (SoS). As a Module Project Manager, defined project scope, goals and deliverables wif project task, resourcing, and budgeting using appropriate project tracking tools, fund utilization, project burndown charts along wif the project progress, risks, and challenges wif contingency plans for the Steering Committee and the Finance team. Environment: Oracle, RALLY (Agile Tool), SharePoint. Confidential, Wilmington, DE Lead Business Consultant Responsibilities: Interacted wif Senior Management on scope analysis and to provide the estimates, statuses, and issues on report decomposition relating to BASEL S.239 compliance. Onboard, train, assign and reviewed report decomposition approaches wif the team members and presented methodologies to senior management. Validate decomposition approach for the Cards LOB wif Accenture and Confidential SMEs based on the directions outlined in Confidential .239 of the BCBS act relating to data lineage and recording for accuracy and risk mitigation. Reviewed and analyzed codes for attribute and SoR across diverse systems to derive lineage and report them into the Accenture template. Interacted heavily wif the business and IT team to resolve queries and logged defects for SOR. Coordinated wif various stakeholders globally for additional documents about system access, reporting logic, requirement gathering and review of the reports submitted by Chief Risk Officer (CRO) to the board of Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). Compared, created and maintained data lineage for Cards LoB in Ab-Initio Meta Data Management (MDM) platform to retain consistency from process documentation by working wif data stewards. Environment: Oracle Essbase, Business Objects, SAS, Other internal SoR and Ab-Initio MDM. Confidential, Charlotte, NC Lead Business Analyst Responsibilities: Interacted wif Marketing and other Business stakeholders to understand Voice of Customer (VOC) and identify customer requirements dat enhances ALLY’s market position Conducted JAD sessions for project feasibility and business requirements Documented Use Cases (UC), System Specifications, Navigation flows and Mobile prototypes in Azure. Coordinated wif various BUs and stakeholders for system requirements, product integration documentation, testing and implementation of the systems. Validated metrics and evaluated release candidates based on Testing and Development release cycles. Documented list of FIS APIs used throughtout the transaction workflow including the errors and issues. Also interacted wif FIS on technical changes. Environment: Clarity, SharePoint, MS Visio, Azure, FIS. Confidential, Stamford, CT Senior Consultant Responsibilities: Read the legal requirements and rules to classify 4000+ business entities into Dodd Frank compliance framework Validate data against business entities and updated management wif deliverables post analysis of BU’s located globally. Validate records and transactions from Legal Structure Database (LSDB) on business entity setup services offered by UBS. Documented Standard Operating Processes (SOP) and a template dat outlined the methodology followed towards assessing BU's for Dodd-Frank compliance. Environment: LSDB, SharePoint. Confidential, Merrimack, NH Lead Business Systems Analyst Responsibilities: Worked wif Product Owners cum stakeholders to elicit requirements, scope definition, prioritization and the release plans. Created processes and system data flow for Checking, Brokerage and Sweep accounts incorporating guidelines from Reg DD for front-middle-back office functions. Adhered all aspects of the Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and KYC Programs including Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), Cash transaction management, suspicious activity reporting (SAR) and customer identification requirements leveraging household data for historical frauds and risk using Actimize feeds and other market databases to derive household risk score. Documented flows wif upstream-downstream files from Actimize, Householding and Customer databases for customer/household fraud history validations and to calculate risk assessment score for determining earliest fund availability. Created mock-ups for Web and Mobile messages for Deposits and transaction processes in iRise. Documented high-level test scenarios and test conditions to satisfy Reg CC requirements. Environment: Tools: Visio, SharePoint. DB2, GRE, Actimize CDD, iRise. Confidential, Baltimore, MD Lead Business Analyst - PM Responsibilities: Documented requirements by performing GAP analysis including BRD, Use Cases and other project documentation (project charters, capacity load, budget allocation) to balance stakeholder needs and negotiate tradeoffs between scope, schedule, budget, quality, and risk. Documented minutes and gained buy-in from groups on project scope, constraints, approach, impact, and schedule by performing and delivering critical path analysis. Designed project organization chart, governance structures, RACI and RAID Metrics to resolve issue management and Requirement Prioritization Matrix (RPM) for scope priortization and scheduling. Conducted stakeholders meeting and JAD sessions for Process Documentation, created Process models in Visio and Wireframes for the Web application. Used semi Agile/Scrum methodologies wif the development team and blend of Waterfall cum Agile wif the stakeholders Access data from Reference data sources like Eagle Pace, DST HiNet & Bloomberg for Equities and FI asset classes. Environment: Visio, Balsamic Mockups, Dream Weaver, Blue Print, IBM WebSphere Process Modeler, DotNet, Oracle 10G, Alfresco Document Management Systems, SRDM: Charles River, Eagle Pace, DST Hi-Net, Bloomberg. Confidential, Richmond, VA Sr. Business Consultant Responsibilities: Conducted user scheduled interviews cum requirements sessions and published BRD, FRD, Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, OOD (Object-oriented Design) using UML and Visio. Conducted Product Backlog Grooming sessions to improvise the requirements, user stories, and the functionalities delivered at the end of each sprint cycles. Documented database source & target systems, the volume of data, staging areas, transfer methods, and reports as part of conversion activities. Interacted wif Scrum Product Owners, Scrum Masters, Data Stewards and senior management in tracking/resolving data lineage and requirements for mortgage data warehousing program. Environment: Teradata, SQL, Rational ReqPro, HP Quality Center. 