SUMMARY An IT professional wif 5 years of experience in resolving technology needs of the business wif a focus on gathering requirements and analyzing complex systems, process, testing, design and/or prototyping. Strong understanding of Business Analysis concepts, SDLC methodologies and Operating models (Agile & Waterfall) wif expertise in database management. Positive attitude towards work and love to learn. Experience in supporting and maintaining CRM applications using Salesforce as a platform. Experience in writing database queries using SQL, SOQL, SOSL and PL/SQL wif expertise in Joins, Stored Procedures & Functions. Experience in configuring salesforce classic application and Lightning experience. Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like Creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Validation rules, Approvals, Workflows, audience creation Reports, Dashboards, Tasks, actions, Process builders and Cloud flow designer. Proficiency in Marketing cloud and its integration wif foreign / external systems. Excellent communication and presentation skills, Ability to communicate in a clear and concise manner. Experience of working in domains such as Health Care, Hotel Industry, Software and Travel & Logistics using SCRUM Agile development and Traditional Waterfall methodology. Document business and functional requirements, including data flow, business rules, and use cases/ stories. Experience in migrating huge amount of data from legacy system into CRMs. Act as a point of contact for any technical and functional concerns. Work wif development and QA teams to resolve questions on the requirements and the intentions and business purpose underlying them. Outstanding relationship management, communication, teamwork, and influence skills. Exposure to JIRA or other ALM tools to create a productive, high quality development environment. Experience of working on a large user base of 7000+ users and communities sites wif 5000+ users. Expertise in using MS Office Tool Suite (including Outlook, Word, Visio, One Note, PowerPoint & Excel). TECHNICAL SKILLS Architecture:  .Net, Spring MVC Architecture Servers:  Salesforce Server SF Sales Cloud, SF Marketing Cloud, SF Service Cloud, Community Portal Web:  Force.com, Visualforce Pages, Visualforce Components, HTML Methodology:  Agile Scrum, Waterfall. Languages:  Apex, C# Database Language:  MySQL, SOQL, SOSL, Oracle 10g/11g, PL/SQL Eclipse, STS, Developer Console: MS SharePoint, confluence Subversion, Github, TFS, Jenkins, CA Agile Rally, Service Now, JIRA, MS - Office: PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Senior Salesforce Business Analyst Responsibilities: Understand requirements/User stories at the business meetings and perform current state analysis to understand system capabilities and application architecture. Strategize the impact of requirements on current Production /applications and determine the impact of new implementation on existing business processes. Analyze, design and develop complex solution by making configurations changes in order to provide long-term supportability and sustainability. Making changes using out of the box salesforce functionality (Process builder, Flows, Reports, Dashboards, Object and Field creation). Design the View pages using visualforce components and skuid (App exchange product) for user interfaces and user experience. Design simulations and recommend the best solution to meet the business requirement considering the governor limits of salesforce and the licenses available. Use JIRA, Confluence, MS Visio, AHA to document all the requirements by the business and translate the requirement into technical details using flow diagrams, Class diagrams etc. Documentation contains all the technical, Infrastructure and business process changes along wif any technical challenges incurred or system limitation. Running a sanity test in pre-production environment (UAT) to ensure no negative impact of the change to the current configurations and data Create packages (package.xml) and OOTB change sets (Inbound & Outbound) for deployment from lower sandboxes to Stage and eventually Production using Jenkins Communicating the deployment changes through release notes to the stakeholders and management in order to get the release absorbed smoothly by the care agents Acts as a single point of contact for any salesforce related concerns, Salesforce Limitation and Licenses questions, Lightning Transition planning. Environment: JIRA, Snow, Force.com, Developer Console, SF Service Cloud, Apex, Visual Force Pages, SOQL, SOSL, Data loader, Triggers, Git hub, Change Set, Skuid, Reports & Dashboards, Lightning App Builder, Confluence, MS Visio, SnagIt editor, One Note, Almond, SOQL Query editor tool. Confidential Salesforce Business Analyst Responsibilities: Interaction wif business partner to understand and elicit the requirements. Translate business requirements into well-designed Salesforce solutions dat are functionally stable, quality checked and dat meet the business needs for Sales, Customer Service, Marketing and plan the sprint. Provide ongoing Salesforce Marketing Cloud/ Exact Target user training. Monitor production issues for Marketing Cloud microsites. Converted an application used by field officers from classic to salesforce lightning by configurations. Create dynamic event registration forms and related email campaigns (reminders, know before you go, last chance, etc). Evaluated and tested integrations between SFMC microsites and the Salesforce sales Cloud. Creation of custom/dynamic email messages and microsites/landing pages Evaluate technical feasibility and Provide detailed estimates of the level of effort associated to implement the project from requirements gathering through deployment. Break down large initiatives (epics) to smaller, workable chunks (stories) dat is easy to develop. Responsible for converting the business requirement into user stories Facilitate the scrum meetings and act as a point of contact between Business partners and Development Team. Use and advice more OOTB functionality like workflow, process builder, validation rules for implementation and evaluating need for Configurations vs Customizations. Contribute in designing Job aids and facilitate end user trainings. Responsible for unit testing and UAT support. Work on Service Now for incidents reported by end users and ensure the fix wifin defined SLA. Use of workbench and data loader extensively to export, update and migrate data. Expertise in database queries using SOQL and SOSL. Environment: CA Agile Rally, Service Now, Force.com, Developer Console, SF Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Apex, Visualforce Pages, SOQL, SOSL, Data loader, Process Builder, Workflows, Triggers, Eclipse, Jenkins, SVN, Change Set, ETL, Workbench. Confidential Salesforce Consultant Responsibilities: Participating in key meetings wif clients including requirement sessions, system demos, user acceptance testing, and end user trainings. Responsible for documenting implementation, customization and configuration of Service Cloud. Complete the configuration for user stories wifin Salesforce, AppExchange products, or other cloud-based technologies. Configuring and management of assets. Extensively used EmailToCase functionality. Experience wif Salesforce Customer and Partner Communities. Worked on JIRA to plan and manage the sprint Experience on entitlement object for business hours. Experience wif Salesforce App-Exchange tools like Conga Composer. Environment: JIRA, Service Now, Service Cloud, Change Set, Microsoft Visio, Validation Rules, SFDC Asset Management, SFDC Case Management, SFDC Knowledge Management, Licenses, Salesforce community Cloud. Confidential Programmer Analyst Responsibilities: Gathering technical and business requirements and utilizing SharePoint as a tool. Analysis of Lotus Notes application to understand the business requirement. Validation of LN Report for Forms, Views, Agents, Custom components. Preparing the Migration Specification Document. Managed the security model of the Salesforce Sales cloud implementation. Integrated Outlook sync wif salesforce. Evaluate the application based on the Migration Specification Document. Tracking process and procedures for future training materials. Full data migration Using in-house c-Migrate or Quest migrator for SharePoint. Quality assurance and UAT support. Creating deployment package. Extensively working on List views, Flows, User management. Understand and implementation of Change Requests from Client and presenting to business partners Environment: LN to SharePoint, MS SQL Server, SharePoint Designer, SharePoint Server, C#, TFS, Nintex, Quest Migrator, SharePoint Migration, SharePoint UI, User Stories, Process Documentation, Project Presentation, JIRA Confidential Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for performing Health Check of servers. Meet wif business partner and understand the requirements, Use HP Service Manager Document business and functional requirements, including data flow, business rules, and use cases/ stories Provide support and perform other activities based adhering on SOPs/work instructions. Responsible for activities relating to the evaluation, analysis, setup of software products. Use the Incident Management System to document information and manage work requests. Provide resolutions and circumvention’s to incidents logged through incident Management System. Assign work orders / incidents to appropriate support teams and follow up until closure. Escalate complex problem to appropriate support specialists. Routine maintenance updates wif other IT staff and business units. Provide hardware / software / network problem diagnosis and resolution. Environment: HP Overview, HP Service Manager, Informatica, Shell Scripts, UNIX 