SUMMARY Analytical, detail - oriented and problem-solving Business System Analyst wif 9+ years of experience. Highly experienced in Agile/SCRUM, Waterfall and SCRUM-fall project lifecycle implementation. Inherent ability to related Project Objectives wif tasks has enabled me to excel in my role and assist in successful implementation of Projects. Over 9+ years of experience as a Senior Business System Analyst and Product Owner in frontline leadership roles. Highly experienced in working in end-to-end project lifecycles including Waterfall, Agile-Scrum and Waterfall-Scrum Hybrid methodologies. Highly experienced in various areas of Investment Banking, Portfolio Management, Fixed Income, Annuities, Trading Life Cycle, Mortgage, Loan Orientation, Stocks, Bonds, Futures, Options, Hedging, OTC derivatives, Bill Payment, Equity Research, Mutual Funds, Securities trading and Commodities. Experienced in documenting Project Scope, Statement of Work (SOW), Project Charter, Business Requirements Document (BRD), Systems Requirements Specification (SRS), Functional Specification Document (FSD). Knowledge of data integration for enterprise wide Application Using Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Enterprise Service Bus ESB Platform. Worthy understanding of concepts like Data warehousing, data structures, Schemas, Data Marts, Data-Entity Relationships and User Administration. Worked wif data warehouses for migrating data from OLTP’s to OLAP cube using ETL tools such as Informatica power center and SSIS. Adept in using various elicitation techniques such as JAD sessions, Interviews, focus groups, and Workshops in Gathering Comprehensive Requirements. Managed Executive level communications, Created Executive Dashboards, Reports and Project status updates for Senior Management and Project teams. Exceptional communication skills and sresult oriented professional who combines formal education/certifications wif experience gained from research and hands-on opportunities. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems:  Windows XP/Vista/7 Macintosh Modeling Tools:  MS Visio, Mockup Screen, Mule ESB (Mule Runtime Engine), Anypoint Studio SDLC Methodologies:  Waterfall, Agile-Scrum, RUP Business Skills:  Change Management, Impact Analysis, and JAD sessions, SWOT Analysis, Project Planning, Project Scheduling and Project Budgeting Requirement Management:  JIRA, HP ALM, Rally, Mule Management Console Project Management Tools:  MS Project, MS SharePoint Server, Rally, Projector PSA, Clarity, HP PPM, TFS, SharePoint 2013,2010, 2007 Testing Tools:  HP QC v10.0, HP ALM v11.5, Load Runner Financial Tools:  MS Excel functions, Financial Statement Analysis, Financial trackers ETL Tools:  Informatica, Tableau, SQL Server Data Tools, SAP Data server, SSIS Reporting Tools:  Tableau Desktop, IBM Cognos, MS Office Suite Languages:  HTML, XML, SQL, jQuery, DataWeave PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - FL Product Owner Responsibilities: Primarily responsible for communicating teh program vision and managing teh product backlog; additionally, facilitated requirement workshops wif Source and Target SMEs to gather non-functional and functional requirements. Collaborated wif program managers, development team, and customers to define features and user stories. Used T-Shirt sizing for estimation and MOSCOW for prioritization of User Stories. Work closely wif counterparts in Product Management team to align on teh vision, program backlog, and roadmap. Facilitated mapping session to capture source to target attribute level mapping, along wif documenting Business Rules as and where required. Collaborated wif Architects to discuss program architecture and implemented use-cases wifin each program. Facilitated teh brainstorming session to resolve any discrepancies in requirements between stakeholders and technical folks. Proposed initiatives to track teh progress of implementation across teh programs and use it as a reporting tool for Project Stakeholders. Represent team in Scrum of Scrums to highlight team achievements and any impediment that is impeding teh team. Involved in defect tracking lifecycle - conducting daily defect tracking meeting, reporting and reviewing teh defects, assigning teh open defects to developers, and re-testing teh fixed defects. Coordinate teh testing and resolving teh impediments as well as dependencies wif other teams as per teh requirement / Project. Coordinated go-live/ production related knowledge transfer to respective teams by providing system overview and detailed use-case information. Communicated wif senior leadership and provided recommendations on team improvement and more efficient approach. Confidential - Hopewell Campus, NJ Sr. Business Systems Analyst/Product Owner Responsibilities: Conducted multiple Interviews, Brainstorming, Requirements Workshop and JAD sessions wif business owners, development teams, DB admins, financial analysts, and Subject matter experts to elicit requirements regarding scenarios, business rules, compliance and regulations. Created Business Requirement document (BRD) for high-level business requirements, and Software Requirements Specification (SRS) for functional, non-functional and Data requirements. Involved in creating wireframes, mock-up screens, Data flow diagrams, use case diagrams, sequence diagrams and Activity diagrams for To-Be system, and Reporting UIs using MS Visio Involved in Data Integration using Enterprise Service Bus - MuleSoft (Mule ESB); Designed Mule flow in a SOA environment wif Mule ESB. Responsible for creation of ER diagrams like Conceptual and Logical diagrams and Collaborated wif database developer in developing physical diagram for database that stores Alerts Assisted teh team in defining teh migration approach and method for teh MuleSoft implementation which drove teh required architecture, design and framework Used Anypoint Studio to connect teh API to backend applications and services. Assisted in preparation of UAT test plan, Test Cases, Testing Cycle schedules, Test Scenarios and implemented them wif QA team. Confidential - Atlanta, GA Sr. Business Systems Analyst/ Product Owner Responsibilities: Interviewed various stakeholders, and elicited requirement by conducting requirements gathering workshops wif Business Users, Functional Managers, and Financial SMEs. Developed Product Roadmap and communicated vision to team; groomed and prioritized product backlog. Decomposed teh scope from teh BRD into user stories by conducting a story writing session wif teh Product owner and tan teh acceptance criteria for teh PSPI. Used Relative Mass Evaluation for estimation, and MOSCOW for prioritization of user stories Created Use-Case Diagrams, Workflow Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams. Involved in Test Planning, Test Preparation, Test Execution, Issue Resolution and Report Generation to assure that all aspects of teh Project are complying wif teh Business Requirements. Designed Test Cases, Test Plans, Test Scripts, and Test Scenarios to perform Functional Testing, Regression Testing, and defects logging using JIRA. Managed Requirement churn during teh project by performing Impact Analysis by checking teh feasibility in maintaining teh Triple Constraint and discussing them in Daily Scrum Stand-up. Logged and tracked defects using JIRA and created an error repository along wif teh QA team. Facilitated team engagement activities to encourage self-organization among teh team. Confidential, Chicago, IL Senior Business System Analyst/Product Owner Responsibilities: Analyzed teh prior documentation and business processes for full understanding of teh project. Interviewed area experts, asking detailed questions and carefully recording teh requirements hereby building a bridge between teh business people and technical people. Developed good knowledge of Financial Instruments, Asset Allocation, Commodities, Bond Pricing, Corporate Bonds, Fixed Income, Credit Risk and Market Risk. After being on boarded, conducted GAP Analysis by understanding teh AS IS business process and teh TO-BE business process Conducted JAD sessions, document analysis and one-on-one interviews wif teh stakeholders for teh requirements elicitation. Assisted project manager in creating proposals and project budget allocations and worked on Project Charter and Work-Breakdown Structures using MS Project. Prepared Business Requirement Document (BRD) and Functional Requirement Document. Decomposed teh scope from teh BRD into user stories by conducting a story writing session wif teh product owner. and tan teh acceptance criteria for teh PSPI. Assisted Scrum Master in facilitating Sprint Zero and communicated to team about Product vision, goals and milestones. Conducted Impact Analysis, Feasibility Study, Cost-Benefit Analysis and ROI calculation in order to be prepared for potential business and technical risks to teh system. Responsible for creating, maintaining and sorting teh Product backlog and Sprint backlog in Jira. Participated in Grooming meeting and prioritized teh backlog using MOSCOW technique and forced ranking. Constantly updated senior management & stakeholders regarding Product progress, Project Performance and Time-lines. Confidential, Fort Lee, NJ Senior Business Analyst Responsibilities: Captured business requirements using various elicitation techniques such as research, formal-informal interviews, focus groups, brainstorming and JAD sessions wif SMEs, Project Teams, and Project Stakeholders. Assisted Project Manager in creating teh Project Charter, Project Budget Allocations and Work Breakdown Structure using MS Project. Collaborated wif associate Business Analysts in preparing teh Business Requirement Documents (BRD) and Functional Requirement Document (FRD). Managed and monitored various scrum events through agile delivery process, worked closely wif Project Manager, Product Owner and Stakeholders to ensure their expectations are met. Created Data Mapping Document in excel along wif Business Rules to assist in Data Migration. Tracked and Managed teh requirements using Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), which controls numerous artifacts produced by teh teams and I also handled requirement churn. Involved in Test Planning, Test Execution and Issue Resolution and Report Generation to assure that all aspects of teh Project are in Compliance wif teh Business Requirements. Logged and tracked teh defects using HP Quality Center. Created an error repository and supported teh testing process wif teh QA team. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Interacted wif teh customers and internal stakeholders to gather user requirements and their expectations from teh system Involved in analyzing Business Requirements and developing System Specifications Analyzed monthly/quarterly performance against plans and forecast and recommended corrective actions Did rigorous load testing using LoadRunner. Assessed business priorities, and advised business units on risks and Cost-Benefit analysis Used Rational Rose to generate various UML Diagrams Organized cross training of team members and users to become more responsive Participated in teh development and preparation of teh Test Plan wif teh testing team as well as ensuring testability, reliability, usability, maintainability and performance of teh application Ensured that teh modifications suggested by teh users were incorporated into teh application Confidential Financial Analyst/Business Analyst Responsibilities: Review financial statements and analyzed sales revenues, costs, expenses, and tax rates for all business units of leading portfolio companies. Develop detailed spreadsheets to identify trends and develop forecasts. Consolidate and analyze monthly results and budgets. Gathered requirements using different varying elicitation techniques from various stakeholders. Documented and verified requirements to ensure consistency in understanding of requirements. Developed Use Case diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams. Established new forecasting tracking and management reporting system to improve availability and accuracy of financial data, triggering 15% increase in accuracy. Conducted quantitative analysis of financial data to forecast revenue, identify future trends, and assess risk associated wif capital expenditures, acquisitions, and joint-venture projects for large real estate investment firm. Prepared budget reports for potential investors and provided clients wif asset management and financial investment advice.