SUMMARY 8+ years of experience in analysis, design and development of Client/Server, web based and n - tier applications. Expert in developing windows applications, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)based Applications, web applications, windows services and web services in Microsoft Visual Studio .Net IDE using C#.Net, Visual Basic. Experience in ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC 5.0/4.0 Framework, Ajax, JQuery, and JavaScript, Asp.NET web API, WCF, XML Web Services, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, LINQ, SQL Server 2005/2008/2012 , Oracle 9i and DB2 Server. Experienced in creating rich user interface using Angular JS, HTML, DHTML, Bootstrap, Master Pages, CSS, Ajax Control Tool kit. Experience in publishing and consuming REST services and Web Services using WSDL, UDDI and SOAP to implement Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). Designed teh system architecture and completed related files with other team members and used UML to complete all necessary UML diagrams. Expertise in using XML/JSON and AJAX to link with back-end applications. Implemented multiple applications for Windows 8 and 8.1 in C# and XAML Very well acquainted with teh concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation, has used them wherever Object Oriented Programming System (OOPS) is needed. Coding in C++ using QT classes for teh assigned use cases and writing Unit Test Cases and doing developer functional testing. Developing templates and generalized code in C++. Involved in writing TSQL queries to get data from different sources and test results. Excellent experience in writing Data Access Layers using ADO.NET Entity Frame Work and LINQ to SQL. Strong hands on experience setting up connections and writing stored procedures, triggers and functions with Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) like SQL server, Oracle 9i and DB2 Server. Strong abilities in Design Patterns, Database Design, Normalization, Views, and Creating SSIS packages, SSRS and involved in all stages of SDLC. Experience in using SSIS tools like Import and Export Wizard, Package Installation, and SSIS Package Designer. Adequate experience in using source control tool Team Foundation Server (TFS), Subversion and VSS. Hands on experience in conducting Web Application Security scan using commercial and non-commercial applications and methodologies such as OWASP Top 10, IBM AppScan, Fortify, SoapUI and others. Using these tools to determine teh security of a given web application developed in Microsoft .NET. Experience in Agile software development methodology and Test-driven development including SCRUM Framework. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: C++, C#.NET, VB.NET. Databases: SQL Server 2005/2008/2012 , Mongo DB, Oracle 9i, DB2 Server Operating Systems: Windows 10,8,7, Vista, XP, 2000 Development Tools: Visual Studio 2015/2013/2010/2008/2005 Reporting Tools: SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) Third Party Tools: Telerik RAD Controls, Kendo UI Versioning Tools: Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS), Subversion, GitHub, VSS. Web Technology: Angular JS, Type Script, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, XML, AJAX toolkit, JQuery, JSON .NET Technologies: .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/2.0 , ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC 5.0/4.0, Web Forms, Windows Forms, Web Services, Web API, WCF, ADO.NET Protocols: HTTP, SMTP, SOAP, FTP, TCP/IP Web Servers: IIS 7.0/6.0/5.0 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Mount Laurel, NJ .NET Developer Responsibilities: Working with business owners and analysts to define and implement new requirements for a more scalable and stable data processing application. Built single page Angular 2 application using Ionic framework fully utilized its JavaScript UI library, including navigation, modal, slide box, scroll, action sheet. Used Angular2 framework for data validation of input forms. Built Responsive web applications using Bootstrap, HTML5 and CSS3 taking PSD to HTML directly. Design, develop, implement and testing of system enhancements for quarterly releases. Designed and developed rich graphical user interfaces for good user interaction using ASP.NET and VB.NET. Designed and implemented scalable multi-tier applications supporting asynchronous communication between distributed systems using .NET C#, Oracle, and EMS TIBCO. UsedSharePoint Object Modelfor developing theWeb Partswith C#.NET as teh language for development to meet teh user requirements. Created custom web parts using SharePoint Designer 2016 and Visual Studio 2015 templates. Worked with differentJQueryplug-ins and implemented client-side functionalities such as paging, table sorting/data tables, sliders. Involved in enhancement of existing application utilizing Angular2, created HTML navigation menu that is role based wherein menu item changes dynamically. Created CustomHTMLHelpers forMVCValidations. Analyzed and designed new WPF application using MVVM and Repository pattern, from design to completion. WorkedWCFRestful and simple.asmxservices to retrieve data usingXMLandJSON. Constructed a Restful web service that returns JSON data with Entity Framework and Web API. Created hostedWCF Servicesand also used different bindings to make it available to different types of clients. Used Multithreading and TPL for implementing parallel processing and printing of returns. Designed system architecture using Unified Modeling Language for all teh necessary UML operations. Responsible for teh operation and administration ofIIS web serversacross Engineering, QA and Production environments, .Net application support and integration with IIS UsedLINQtoXMLfor retrieving teh data efficiently. Used Azure cloud service for communication to teh end client. EnableOpen ID and Windows Live autantication in Azure cloud apps. Designed SSRS Reports using TSQL queries based on business requirements. Experience in programming tasks-stored procedures, triggers, cursors using SQL Server with TSQL. Worked on consuming teh WCF services, Tibco, EMS with SSL, ETL and SSIS packages. Developed teh Very Complex Stored Procedures, User Define Functions for different modules using SQL Server 2012. Performed Manual Testing, smoke test of application and certify builds in higher environment. PerformedUnit Testingwith teh testing toolNUnitand involved in Unit test case, code review checklist preparation and validation. Implemented all complex automated test scripts for test case validation Used Jira extensively to modify Stories, Points and add comments. Involved in teh estimation of Stories. Created reports and dashboards in JIRA to track hours and project status to report to finance team. Responsible for code deployments to DEV, TEST and Production Environments. Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for continuous integration and version control and used Fiddler to debug web request and responses. Actively participated in Scrum meetings of teh project implemented in Agile project management methodology. Environment: Visual Studio 2015, C#, ASP.NET, VB.NET, Angular2,Sharepoint 2016, Tibco EMS, Java Script, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, HTML, AJAX, XML, Web Services TPL,IIS, Entity Framework, Jira, XSD, XSLT, TFS, Azure, Automated testing, TSQL, SQL Server 2012. Confidential, Dearborn MI .NET Developer Responsibilities: Followed teh SDLC for software development. Used AGILE methodologies to implement teh application and participated in daily SCRUM and weekly SPRINT meetings. Create new web forms, design and implement business logic behind them using ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET. Built Applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS, Angular 2, Bootstrap and interacted with SQL database. Implemented inline editor, instant search and order form functionality using Angular JS. Involved in developing thebase frameworkfor both WPF and Silverlight clients. Used Task Parallel Libraries for a responsive User Interface. New software development conducted using teh rational process. Teh interface between teh mainframes and server/desktop level applications was Tibco Rendezvous. Most systems were constructed in a SOA pattern with prolific use of web services between Delta and its various vendors. Wrote class library forDatabase Access layer using C and ADO.NET. Created rich and interactive UI using Windows Forms (WinForms) and WPF. Used AJAX and JQuery extensively for fast and asynchronous communication between page and server without refreshing teh page. Used JQuery for Client Side Validations and AJAX calls to communicate with Controller Actions and WCF Services with JSON Data. Implemented MVC pattern as it an ideal framework for delivering a structured, testable UI model. Created Views and Partial Views - UI and middle tier for various modules using C#, MVC 4 (Razor View Engine), AJAX, jQuery, HTML, CSS. Developed WCF Services to integrate with SOAP compatible systems and RESTful services are implemented using ASP.NET Web API to support light weight data exchange in ASP.NET MVC UI. Created Web APIs using ASP.NET Web API allow new web/client projects to leverage reusable data. Working on creating Rest Services using ASP.NET Web API and C#. Providing SaaS hosting and integration expertise and Client platforms. Programmed multiple applications for Windows 8 and 8.1 in C# and XAML. Implemented OOP’s concepts like inheritance to develop base common and base server modules. Implemented Unit Testing, Integration Testing and System Testing using NUNIT. Used Change Data Capture (CDC) to simplify ETL in data warehouse applications. Involved in creating SSIS packages to migrate large amounts of data and responsible for creating database design, tables, stored procedures, and data controls using MS SQL Server. Written simple to complex stored procedures using TSQL to retrieve teh data from SQL Server database. Written stored procedures and SQL statements to access data from SQL Server 2012 Database. Code Review done for teh developers and VSS Usage, Unit Test Cases. Used Window AZURE to deploy teh application on cloud and managed teh session Integrated various reports into teh application. Teh reports were created using Crystal Reports. Environment: ASP.NET, VB.NET, Web forms, WEB API VB.NET, ADO.NET, Web Services, JQuery, ETL, DB2 Server, TSQL, SQL Server, HTML, CSS, OOPS, JavaScript, SaaS, Tibco Rendezvous, Angular JS, Angular 2, Visual SourceSafe(VSS), Visual Studio 2013. Confidential, Peoria, IL .Net Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for teh complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Involved in gathering teh requirements from teh end user and directly interacted with client. Developed code for teh configurator according to teh specification provided by client. Developed web pages using master page and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and HTML to provide uniform look and feel throughout teh application. Developed templates and generalized teh code using C++. Performed coding in C++ using QT classes for teh assigned use cases and wrote unit test cases. Involved in Parsing teh XML Document through MSXML Parser and storing in Cache memory. Transforming teh XML document into HTML using XSL, XSLT, X-PATH. Extensively used jQuery to provide rich and interactive experience to teh users. Used windows autantication and authorization to check teh user credentials and provide teh access. Used machine.config and web.config files for .Net security. Created common reusable objects for teh ETL team and overlook coding standards. Reviewed high-level design specification, ETL coding and mapping standards. Involved in writing Complex SQL queries, stored procedures and Triggers accessed SQL Server database using ADO.Net. Utilized ADO.Net technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation. Wrote teh data access layer code using ADO.Net for SQL Server database generating Datasets from XSD Schemas, CSV files. Performed JSON data parsing using AngularJS to render teh information on user interface pages. Teh business logic is implemented in C#.NET. Created various web methods and accessed those methods from jQuery AJAX calls. UsedAJAX, jQuery for creating asynchronous user experience. Used LINQ forvariousdatabasetransactionsand querying collection objects. Used MSMQ Microsoft Message Queuing for building applications. Wrote unit test cases and integration test cases. Used SSRS as teh tool for reporting services. And used SSIS package for data manipulation. Deployed SSIS Packages from Dev/Staging/Production using Package Configurations. Involved in teh deployment, maintenance and testing of teh application in production environment. Used Microsoft SharePoint 2013 for project management. Used agile methodologies to develop dis software application. Provided Production support and solving most severe issues. Environment: C++, ASP.NET 4.5, C#, Web forms, AJAX, jQuery, Angular JS, Telerik RAD Controls, SQL Server 2008, ETL, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Subversion, TFS, Windows 7, Windows Server 2008, SSRS, SSIS, MSMQ, Microsoft Dynamics CRM, SharePoint 2013, LINQ, LinqToSql. Confidential .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in all phases of software development lifecycle (analysis, design, implementation, development and testing) of teh entire application. Used 3-tier architecture to implement presentation layer, business layer and data access layer. Involved in developing ASP.NET intranet application using .NET framework 4.0. Coded extensively in VB.NET targeting teh Business requirements. An exclusive experience working with User Controls with VB.NET code-behind files, debugging and Quality Testing of teh code. Involved in Parsing teh XML Document through MSXML Parser and storing in Cache memory. Transforming teh XML document into HTML using XSLT, X-PATH. Developed .NET Web services using WCF for online transactions using C#.NET and exposed them through SOAP and HTTP. Migration of Pre-existing Oracle\Legacy web forms segmentation pages to WPF. Extensively used jQuery to provide rich and interactive experience to teh users. Used windows autantication and authorization to check teh user credentials and provide teh access. Created Business Layer/Data Access Layer using C#, ADO.NET, LINQ, SQL Server 2008. Worked with Agile Environment to meet teh timelines and interaction with teh team. Developed WCF services to save/get teh data for Users information, Transactions details, In-detailed users dealings with teh company, using C#, LINQ. Developed UI Pages using Razor Views, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery. Worked on highly advanced user interface design and development using Angular JS, Node.JS, HTML and CSS. Create and maintain existing MS SSIS packages/MS Dynamics AX Views used for financial and warehouse management. Involved in writing Complex SQL queries, stored procedures and Triggers accessed SQL database using ADO.Net. Extensive experience on using SQL, PL/SQL, ORACLE Database. Created various web methods and accessed those methods from jQuery AJAX calls. Created views in SQL server 2008 to execute various database routines. Extensively used SQL joins to get teh data from different tables. Wrote unit test cases and integration test cases. Involved in teh deployment, maintenance and testing of teh application in production environment. Used TFS for version control in team environment. Used agile methodology to develop dis application. Environment: ASP.NET 4.0, VB.NET, C#, Web forms, AJAX, jQuery, MS Dynamics AX SQL Server 2008, Oracle 9i, XML, HTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), JavaScript, Angular Js, TFS, Windows 7, Windows Server 2003. Confidential .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in gathering teh requirements from teh client and documenting teh artifacts of teh system. Involved in all phases of Agile Software Development Life Cycle. Designed and developed Web Pages using ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#.NET, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, CSS and server controls. Followed Agile and Scrum Methodology and to produce high Quality software. Worked with MVC architecture application using ASPX view engine and web API. Developed reusable and controls using ASP.NET and C# in teh .NET Framework 4.0. Developed classes and interfaces for teh Data Access layer using VB.NET, ASP.NET ADO.Net, and SQL server data access library Responsible for module development written in MVC framework with C#. Used AJAX to present a very intuitive user experience. Implemented SOA with creating and consuming Web Services in C#.NET in .NET 4.0. Worked on controller, ng-controller and ng-model in Angular JS. Client side validation done using JavaScript and Configured teh IIS. Maintained build versions and code versions using GIT's Version Control Used ADO.NET components - Data Reader, Data Adapter, SQL Command and Dataset for retrieving data. Developed Restful service using Web API framework. Involved in designing, developing, debugging and testing of reports in SQL Server Reporting Services(SSRS). Developed Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, and Views to handle all data manipulation on MS SQL Server 2008. Used GITHUB for source code repository and versioning. Developed WCF services for both Desktop and mobile applications. Created and implemented Web Service methods and SOAP protocols Environment: .NET Framework, C#.NET, VB.NET, Visual Studio 2010, MVC, Angular JS, Web API, ASPX view engine, ASP.NET 3.5, Web services, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2008, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, XSLT, JavaScript, IIS, SOAP, SSRS, SSIS, GITHUB (Source Control). 