SUMMARY 15+ years of experience in Business Analytics, Data Warehousing, Data Integrations, ETL Development, Business Analysis, System Analysis, Data Analysis, Data Modeling, Databases Development, Data Mining, Data Profiling, BI Reporting, Project and Team Management Skills Enterprise Data Warehouse Architecture, Data Mart, OLAP, OLTP, Data Analysis, Data Integrations, Data Migration, Data Mining, Data Profiling and Data Presentation. Informatica ETL Architecture, Design & Development in Creating Workflows, Sessions and Mapping flows to integrate and extract data from variety sources using various Services and Transformations and Performance Tuning within. Databases in Oracle, Teradata, Hadoop and Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle SQL, Hive SQL and PL/SQL Programming - Writing Packages, Procedures, Functions, Materialized Views, Jobs, Performance Tuning using Toad, PL/SQL Developer etc. Strong analytical and data interpretation skills in analyzing complex, high-volume, high-dimensionality data from varying sources using a variety of tools and data analysis techniques. Collaborating with Management, Business and Technology and Cross Vendor partners to jointly identify data needs required to drive analytic project requirements end-to-end Data Modeling - Dimensional Data Modeling, Star Schema, Snow Flake Schema, Different Facts and Dimensions Tables Design with Conceptual, Logical and Physical Data Modeling Methods, Revere Engineering and Forward Engineering of the Data Models. Business Intelligence Tools - using SAP Business Objects with Universe Design, Information Design, Data Federation, Business Views Design and Web Intelligence Reports Development, Scheduling and Tableau Reporting. Facilitate and create detailed documentation (Design specification, Data mapping, Process Flow, Data flow diagrams) and verify data mapping as needed to support the Data Warehouse projects. System Analysis study of the existing OLTP systems, Reverse engineering of existing OLTP System and Data for the purpose of Data Warehousing, Designing Process Flow and Data Flow Diagrams. Agile Methodology of Delivering the Projects, Project Management - Tracking of the Tasks, Documentation, Conducting Scrum, Standup Meetings, Implementing Organization and Product Standards and Best Practices. Data Virtualization - Blending of Heterogeneous Data sources using the Cisco Virtualization Suite, SAP BI4 Information Design Tool. Defining Testing Methodologies - creating Test Plans and Test Cases, Verifying and Validating Application Software based on standards for Software Development and effective QA implementation in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). TECHNICAL SKILLS Data Integrations: Informatica Power Center Administration, ETL Development - Workflow Manager, Designer, Repository Manager and Workflow Monitor Clients Business Intelligence: SAP Business Objects - Information Designer, Data Federation Administration, Business View Manager, Universe Designer, Web Intelligence Reporting, Universe and Reports Migration Analytics Tools: Business Objects, Tableau Databases: Oracle, Teradata, MS SQL Server, Hadoop, MS Access Programming: SQL and PL/SQL Programming using Toad, PL/SQL Developer, Unix Shell Scripting Data Modeling: Microsoft Visio, Erwin, Toad Data Modeler, SQL Developer Data Modeling, Draw.io Data Virtualization: Cisco Information Server (Composite DV), SAP BO BI4 Information Design Tool Job Scheduling: Cisco Tidal Enterprise Scheduler, Oracle Job Scheduling, Dollar Universe Scheduler Project Management: CA Agile Central PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, San Jose, CA BI/DW Consultant, System and Data Analyst Responsibilities: Building Reporting Platform on the SAP Business Objects - Universe Design and Reports Development. Backtracking the data loads and data formulations throughout the warehousing process. Interpreting complex logics from the Teradata EDW Database and ETL Mappings. Trouble shooting the issues during the transfer of BI System from Teradata to Hadoop Database. ETL Data between Teradata, Hadoop, Oracle and HANA. Building logics in the Data Foundation Layer and Supporting the Business with day-to-day Information needs by proving data using complex SQLs in Teradata. Environment: Teradata, SAP HANA, Hadoop, Oracle, Toad, Teradata SQL Assistant, SQL, PL/SQL, Hive, CA Agile, Informatica, Sqoop, SAP Business Objects, Tableau. Confidential, San Jose, CA BI/DW Consultant, System and Data Analyst Responsibilities: Providing Data Integration Solutions using Informatica ETL Development. ETL Development, Data Base Development and Business Intelligence Reporting. Extractions of Data from various ERP Systems for the BI Analytics Platform. Design and Develop various Transformations for the Cisco Refresh Data Mart IT Analysis - Business Analysis, Data Analysis, System Analysis. Conducting Meeting with Cisco Business and Management Teams for the Requirements gathering. Environment: Teradata, Oracle, MS SQL Server, Toad, Teradata SQL Assistant, Teradata Sdudio, Cisco Composite Information Server, BO Information Design Tools, Programming: SQL, PL/SQL, CA Agile Central, Informatica, Sqoop, SAP Business Objects, Cisco Tidal Enterprise Scheduler, Cisco AppDB and Cisco uDeploy Tools. Confidential Technical Lead - ETL and Database Development Responsibilities: Design, Development and testing of the ETL Mapping logics using Informatica Power Center. Design, Development of the BI Reports Using the SAP Business Objects. System Analysis, Requirement Analysis, Design, Develop and Deployment of ETLs. Managing SOX Compliance, Technical Design and Project Documentation. Environment: Teradata, Oracle, MS SQL Server, Toad, Teradata SQL Assistant, Teradata Sdudio SQL, PL/SQL, Informatica, SAP Business Objects. Confidential Technical Lead - ETL and Database Development Responsibilities: Worked on the Design and Development of ETL Solutions dat integrate data from 8 applications. Requirement Analysis, Design, Develop and Deployment of ETLs. Customizing and Enhancing the Existing Reports, ETLs performance tuning. Providing accurate data for an improved decision support system Environment: Oracle, Erwin, Visio, Toad, Programming: SQL, PL/SQL, ETL Informatica Power Center Confidential Technical Lead Responsibilities: End-to-End application support for 8 applications in dis environment Automated several manual loading and data cleansing processes Monitoring SLAs, Preparing Metrics to Management and Client Informatica administration, support and maintenance Environment: Teradata, Oracle, Toad, Teradata SQL Assistant, SQL, PL/SQL, Informatica Power Center - Administration Console, SAP Business Objects, ClikView. Confidential Team Lead Responsibilities: Administered Informatica Shared Environment dat hosted 10 different applications End-to-End application support for four applications in dis environment Consultancy and services for Informatica upgrade Analysis on As-Is Architecture and recommendations on proposed/To-Be Architecture Environment: Oracle, SAP BW, Toad, Informatica Power Center - Administration Console. Confidential Responsibilities: Implemented SOX Compliance in all iTDW Servers Replaced FTP with SFTP in all iTDW related servers Successfully coordinated Production Server migration from US data center to UK datacenters Handled critical enhancements’ design and documentation Responsible in many Change Requests design, development and Production migrations Environment: Oracle, SAP BW, Toad, SQL, PL/SQL, Informatica Power Center - Administration Console. Confidential Data Modeler Responsibilities: Designing conceptual and logical data model diagrams and deploying the physical database. Designing Fact & Dimensions tables and defining their relationships, grain and the measures. Technical Documentation like Data Model Doc, Data Dictionary Doc, Mapping Doc etc., Coordinating with ETL team during transformations design and loading process. Defining the Flow of data and transformation logic and Verifying the Loading Process. Environment: Oracle, MS SQL Server, MS Access, Analog Systems to get the Logs in Text and CSV Files, Toad Data Modeler, Toad Performance Tuning, SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL, Informatica Power Center - Administration Console, SAP Business Objects. 