SUMMARY Experience as a Systems/Data/Business Analyst with experience in gathering Business Requirements, Business Process flow, and Business Process Modeling. Strong knowledge of all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and methodologies such as Agile - Scrum, Waterfall, Waterfall-Scrum Hybrid and Rational Unified Process (RUP). Proficient in conducting GAP analysis of AS-IS and TO-BE systems, SWOT analysis, Impact analysis, Feasibility analysis, Cost-benefit analysis, Cause & TEMPEffect analysis and Risk analysis. Good knowledge of database relationships and concepts; worked on RDBMS like Oracle and MS SQL server. Experience in creating specifications and developing Conceptual, Logical and Physical ER diagrams. Expertise in designing schemas, creating databases as well as generating DDL, DML and DRL queries in SQL. Excellent skills in analysis, design, development and implementation of ETL tools like Informatica Power Center, SSIS and reporting tools like Hyperion and SSRS. Experience in facilitating joint application development (JAD) sessions involving stakeholders, SME’s, project managers, business sponsors and business users as well as conducting one on one interviews, survey/questionnaires, brainstorming sessions, document analysis for requirement elicitation. Diverse experience in BusinessModeling, Document Processing, EDI, Mapping, HIPAA Regulatory changes and Application Integration in healthcare domain. Has extensive experience with analysis and review of software and business requirement documents and document management. Experienced in gathering businessrequirements, JAD Sessions, Gap Analysis, UML diagrams, Process Flows, BusinessDocumentation, Claims Processing & Testing and Claims Adjudication for Medicare and Medicaid, Data Mapping/Modeling, Trizetto Facets 4.x and Medical Billing. Adept in creating various project artifacts like Business Requirements Document (BRD), Functional Specifications Document (FSD/FRD) and Systems/Technical Requirements Specifications (SRS/TRS), Use Case documentation, High level and Low level documents (HLD/LLD) and Business Rules Spreadsheet. Good understanding in preparing Responsible, Accountable, Consulted and Informed RACI matrix. Proficient in UML by creating Use-Case diagrams, Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams and Class diagrams using MS Visio, Rational Rose as well as creating mock-up screens and prototype. Well versed with agile scrum process like facilitation of scrum ceremonies and managing requirements churn. Experience in reviewing documentation of developed solutions and authoring of basic instructions guides, and halp files to assist in end user training and support. A Versatile Self-starter with, strong listening, interpersonal, quantitative, qualitative analytical, evaluating & analytical skills. Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication, documentation and leadership skill. Excellent communication, problem-solving, Public Speaking, critical thinking, conflict resolution, facilitation, and documentation skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Project Management Tools: Unified Modeling Language (UML), Rational Unified Process (RUP), Rational Rose, Rational Requisite Pro, MS-Project, MS Share Point, Agile-Scrum, Waterfall-Scrum, Waterfall. Methodology: Waterfall, Agile-Scrum, Waterfall-Scrum, Waterfall-RUP Business Intelligence: Oracle Hyperion Essbase, Hyperion Planning, Oracle Financials(As part of ERP systems) Requirement Management: Rational Enterprise Suite (Rose, Requisite Pro), HPALM 11.5,UML Work-flow Tools: MS Office, MS Project, MS SharePoint 2007/ 2010/ 2013 Modelling tools: MS Visio, Rational Rose Languages: HTML, XML, SQL version 2014, Java, Java Script Database: SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, MS Access Test Automation: ALM/HP Quality Center, JIRA, Clear quest PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Jersey City, New Jersey Business/Functional Analyst Responsibilities: Capturing and defining requirements during requirements gathering sessions with clients and stakeholders Organizing and leading Joint Application Design sessions with client and stakeholders to design TEMPeffective solutions Analyzing existing legacy processes to determine modernization and optimization strategies Developing screen prototypes, process flow diagrams using Visio and Functional/technical specification documents Acting as a liaison between technical and program area staff, understanding technical limitations on proposed solutions Managing team of developers to develop proposed application Managing and coordinating with testing resources to thoroughly test system functionality during System Integration Providing support to end users during User Acceptance Test (UAT) phase and post implementation Producing detailed, timely reports of deliverables, defects, test cases, work items, and client comments Writing SQL queries to analyze data and create Adhoc reports Assisting with overall project management activities such as creating work plans, producing user guides for project tools, and managing deliverable production Developed Financial applications and created web forms and business rules for risk management. Develop and maintain contact with decision makers at key clients, organize and lead pursuit teams, participate and lead aspects of the proposal development process . Created region based Task lists and added all the steps to submit budget and forecast for the end users. Provision user access to applications in SIT, UAT and Production environments. Involved in creating the design document for the applications which gets the metadata from theData Sourcesystem and Data loading. Provide Scenario data and perform Scenario testing and Materiality testing in UAT. Generate variance analysis report for Line of Businesses and provide assistance in research the cause for variance in data. Develop SQL queries to extract and transform meta-data and data. Took part in developing documentation requirement for SOX compliance. Install, Train and support business users with Smartview and excel add-in applications. Create reporting templates for users to retrieve data from Essbase applications. Provide direction to Business analysts in writing Change requests and Business Required Documents required to implement changes in Oracle Financial Services (OFSAAI) Environment: OFSAAI, Data Stage, DRM, BPA automation tool, Toad for Oracle, Oracle EBS R12,Microsoft Office suite of Product( Outlook, Word, Visio) Confidential - Madison, Wisconsin Functional Analyst Responsibilities: Used Agile Scrum Methodology as the project execution and development. Responsible for continuous process improvement and for identifying and maintaining a clear and measurable Development Process dat is deployable throughout the enterprise-using Scrum. Involved in Cross functional relationships. Analyzed prior documents and Gathered Business Requirements, analyze data/workflows. Defined the scope, financial projections and Cost/benefit analysis. Progressed from Problem Statement to well-documented designs. Conducted various requirements gathering through research, formal-informal sessions, JRP sessions and JAD sessions with SMEs (Subject Matter Experts), Teams, and Stakeholders. Conducted interviews, live meetings and JAD sessions with Businessusers and Subject Matter Experts (SME's) to understand the As-Is system and gather requirements for the To-Be system. Analyzed the pre-existing documents to has a better understanding of the present system. Conducted presentations to Stakeholders explaining the gaps in the system and how the changes would effect different modules with respect to Medicare electronic enrollment applications. Worked directly with clients and third party vendors for all the projects. Captured/documented process steps, Functional/nonfunctional requirements in client's defined template like, Businessrequirement document(BRD) User Interface specifications, Requirement repository template, File transfer specification, Use Case specifications and Report Requirement specification. Designed and developed Use Cases, Workflow diagrams and End-to-End Scenarios using UML. Organized daily scrum calls to keep the team on track and the stakeholders updated. Conducted requirements walkthrough with stakeholders and offshore team and worked with offshore team on regular basis to make sure dat their queries has been resolved Documented, organized and tracked the requirements using Rational Requisite Pro Created and updated data mapping documents for banking migration and Integration project. Responsible for tracking all requirements on HP Quality center and logging defects. Involved with the quality assurance team to develop and design test plan and test cases. Assisted with user testing of systems, maintained quality procedures, and ensured appropriate documentation is in place. Performed Data Mining, Data Analysis and Data Visualization using BI tools such as Hyperion Essbase. Performed Data Analysis to report predictive analytics and location analytics for reports. Performed GAP analysis and assisted in process reengineering and created TO-BE process document. Gave presentation on how security and cross validation rules work upon implementation to the bank. Used ER Diagrams, Class Diagrams and data flow diagrams to define Data Mapping parameters of the system Experience in Data mining and Data analysis for Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) purpose to generate reports. Prepared Business Requirement Documents (BRD) and Functional Requirement Document (FRD). Decomposed BRD into User Stories by conducting a story writing session with product owner and user Acceptance Criteria. Highly proficient in writing User stories, creating Use Cases, Use case diagrams, Workflow Diagrams using MS Visio/ UML. Assisted Project Teams in preparing Software Requirement Specifications (SRS), Software Design Documents (SDD), User Interface Design, designing of Application Architecture & Database Modeling. Expert in Tracking and Managing the Requirements using Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) dat controls numerous artifacts produced by the teams and also handled requirement churn. Involved in Test Planning, Test Preparation, Test Execution and Issue Resolution and Report Generation to assure dat all aspects of a Project are in Compliance with the Business Requirements. Analyze Business Requirements from Black Box testing perspective. Reviewed Test Strategy and Test Plans to ensure dat test cases reflect user needs for the functional, User Interface, Usability and Security requirements. Establish Incident Reporting and Change Control procedures. Assisted in preparation of UAT test plan, test cases, testing cycle schedules, test scenarios and implemented them with QA team. Proven record of Team Management and Leadership skills. Environment: Oracle EBS, ETL, Data Warehouse, Agile Scrum methodology, Wealth management and portfolio management, MS project, MS office Tools (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Share Point and Visio), MS Project, MS Visio, SQL, UML, User stories and JIRA. Confidential - Indianapolis, Indiana Business/Functional Analyst Responsibilities: Work in an Agile Development Environment fractioning out the functionalities of Electronic Health Record (EHR) and Practice Management and Insurance verification. Gather Businessrequirements by interviewing Subject Matter Experts (SME) and end-users, nurses, physical therapists and other clinical staffs who actually will use the EMR software, via JAR session. Assist in recognizing the weaknesses (Gap Analysis) in the existing functionality of EMR System besides adding additional functionalities. Create user stories and assign values to each, coordinate with the client and the team to update the sprint backlog. Ran the sprint cycles and made sure the sprint velocity never decreased to unacceptable levels. Develop comparative statements, reports to examine the existing functionalities and present to the stakeholders. Also create BusinessProcess Workflow Diagrams. Provide the solution to enhance the existing functionalities and segregate BusinessRequirements into high level and low level Use Cases. Extensive experience in using SQL Server Profiler to monitor the SQL server for deadlocks, long running queries and fine tune the same to improve performance. Document detailed BusinessRequirements Documents (BRD) and Functional Requirement Documents (FRD) using Rational Requisite Pro. Work on SharePoint platform to update the status of the project. Use Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) codes for verifying patient eligibility and receiving the insurance benefits, patient information, health care claim request, and healthcare claim through the new EHR System. Develop Test Plans and Test Cases according to BusinessRequirements, using HP-ALM. Assisted the QA in performing simple SQL queries for QA testing and data validation. Environment: Agile - Scrum, JAD, MS Visio, MS Word, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, XML, Java/J2EE, JSP, Web Services, MySQL, SQL, JIRA, MS SharePoint, Atlassian, Rally, Clarity, UML, MS Project, Microsoft Office tools - Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Atlassian tools (Bamboo and Confluence) Confidential - Indianapolis, Indiana Business/Functional Analyst Responsibilities: Gathered BusinessRequirements from the Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) and documented the requirements in the BRD. Utilized data flow diagrams, use case diagrams and process flow diagrams to represent information provided by the Business Owners. Mapped process flows; assess as-is processes through user interviews, data collection and analysis, design and evaluation of to-be process solutions. Reviewed, analyzed, and evaluated businesssystems for end user needs, including documenting requirements and creating process workflows. Coordinated with businessowners and states departments to determine project requirements. Responsible for leading JAD sessions with Subject Matter Expert, stakeholders, project manager, developers, and end-users to identify requirements. Identified gaps between features when data was being mapped from old system to new system, analyzed issues and provided solutions. Wrote and managed all of the businessand functional requirements of the new applications, as well as the added features for the older application. Involved in weekly defect review meetings to review the status of defect fixes and upcoming build releases. Wrote User Stories to present scenarios to potential vendors to determine their system capabilities. Updated and followed up on weekly Task Lists with SMEs. Used Power Point to create presentations for potential new products to present to upper level management for their consideration. Was responsible for writing meeting notes and distributing them to SMEs and managers. Scheduled meetings with developers, system analystand testers to collaborate resource allocation and Project completion. Generated statistical reports for management group using excel and SQL reporting. Used SQL queries to validate and manipulate the data to perform application testing. Involved in preparing the technical design documents and carrying out walkthrough meeting with the IT and Businessmanagers. Co-ordinated pre-release and release processes including change control, production migration and warranty support. Involved in manual testing of various transactions, documenting the load testing process and methodology. Analyzed defects and halped the technical team to fix the same. Presented status reports to project manager, analyzed risks, issues, timelines and made business recommendations. Environment: MS SQL Server, MS SharePoint, SSIS, MS Office, MS project, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Visio, Oracle 12c, Oracle 11g, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, XML, Java/J2EE, JSP, Web Services, SQL, JIRA Confidential Business/Functional Analyst Responsibilities: Used Agile Scrum methodology for the iterative development of the application. Involved in preparing the project scope, objectives and gathered business requirements by conducting interviews, JAD sessions with subject matter experts (SME’s), stakeholders and development team for clarifying requirements and facilitating better communication and reaching consensus regarding the risk assessment of portfolios. Perform Gap Analysis of the processes to identify and validate requirements. Prepared Business Requirement Document (BRD), Functional Requirement Document (FRD), System Requirement Specification (SRS) to provide details of each business, functional requirement and implementation plan of these requirement. Worked with SMEs and business analyststo create business requirement documents and functional requirement document. Created and provided validation rules to developers for client-side validation and server-side validation. Created Conceptual, Logical and Physical database modeling, SQL Queries for data validation and integration. Utilized ETL/ Informatica for Extraction, Transformation and Loading from source database to target database. Used MS SharePoint to organize all the documents and artifacts related to the project in a centralized repository for better team collaboration and co-ordination. Helped the QA team to develop the test plans and test cases to perform the black box and user acceptance testing (UAT). Environment: Agile - Scrum, JAD, MS Visio, MS Word, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, XML, Java/J2EE, JSP, Web Services, MySQL, SQL, JIRA, Hyperion, ETL, Informatica, MS SharePoint. 