SUMMARY A highly self - motivated and enthusiastic professional with 5+ years of IT experience with 2 years of experience in Robotic Process Automation (RPA). Has hands-on experience on working with RPA technology Automation Anywhere and trained on Blue Prism and UI path. Extensive working noledge in developing Business Objects with Automation Anywhere. Experienced in building Automation Anywhere Processes and Business Objects for various Business systems robots. Good noledge about managing robot's workloads using Automation Anywhere Work Queues. Hands on Experience in developing BOTS with Blue Prism, Automation Anywhere. Working on Queue Configurations, Monitoring, Internal Automation Anywhere Work Queue Actions, Exception handling, efficient use of stages, blocks, data types, session and environmental variables for processing of Business Process diagrams and Process flow charts using RPA tools. Involved in process automation collaborations with business users globally to analyze business processes, recommend RPA based solutions for teh processes, and develop robots using Automation Anywhere software. Performed tool evaluation and feasibility to halp in selecting suitable Automation tool for RPA implementation. Performed stress test for BOT scripts to prove scalability and stability of RPA code. Expertise with Control Room Resource, Session Management, Blue Prism Calculation functions and debugging of Process Solutions. Developed and configures automation processes as per teh technical design document (TDD) to meet teh defined requirements. Developed new processes and objects using core workflow principals that are efficient, well structured, maintainable and easy to understand. Assisting managers with their projects and communicating within teh RPA team and Preparing reports and delivering presentations on behalf of teh team. Ability to quality test & check Automation Anywhere codes built by developers and Experience with VB and VBA macros. Extensive experience in writing complex stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Views, Indexes and Joins on SQL Server. Strong expertise in writing Excel Macros with Excel VBA for different business environments. Self-motivated team player with excellent problem-solving skills and ability to learn modern technologies and tools quickly. Maintained and teh several RPA bots as batch processes on daily basis and ensure quality and high performance to teh internal and vendor applications of teh organization. Problem solving issues that arises in day to day running of robotic processes and providing timely responses and solutions as required. Involved in Process Management, Defining, Designing, Development and Testing. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages:  Python, SQL RPA Tools:  Automation Anywhere, UiPath, Blue Prism. Databases:  SQL Server, Oracle 11g. SQL Server Tools:  SSIS, SSRS. Configuration Management:  TFS. IDE:  Microsoft Visual Studio. OS:  Windows XP/7/10. Methodologies:  Agile, Waterfall. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE RPA Developer Confidential, Oklahoma City, OK Responsibilities: Created Bots for Automation process for Front Office and Back Office process areas involving web, mainframe and windows-based applications. Created database connections to fetch teh data and automated teh process to arrange data with Automation Anywhere. Worked on using Excel and CSV commands with Automation Anywhere. Experience in using Send Email command to Email reports and errors. Experience in using Delay and Wait commands inside teh AA tool. Worked on Activities using Object Cloning and Manage Web Controls. Worked on Process Image comparison using Image recognition command. Automated tasks using web recorder and Scheduled tasks to repeat as per requirements using Automation Anywhere. Responsible for scheduling Task scheduler to exchange data between ERP and application. Worked with log file to handle teh errors. Identifying and debugging teh errors using Error Handlers. Used String Operation to Compare and eliminate duplicates from teh data. Worked with Plug in Splunk and Logstash to AA for Log error handling purposes. Demonstrated teh capabilities of RPA for on-going projects and for future potential clients and facilitated teh presentations to teh clients. Extensive experience in problem identification, error resolution process and reporting defects. Having exposure and understanding of bot performance and metrics to ensure that architecture and infrastructure met current and future business needs. Worked with teh project runs on Agile Development method. Processed and supported requests and bug fixes to meet program deliverables to ensure RPA implementation success. Strong understanding of product capability, structure, protocols, application integration, technology, deployment related to Robotic Process Automation. Worked with clients and partners to provide functional and technical expertise in areas including, solution design, project management, business process improvement. Performed POC (Proof of Concept) on UI Path to halp in selecting suitable tool for RPA implementation. RPA Developer Confidential, Pasadena, CA Responsibilities: Participated in setting up teh RPA's Automation Anywhere environment in both front end and back end. Implemented End to End Robotic Process Automation (RPA) in a banking sector using Automation Anywhere. Managing teh importing and exporting data between files and applications. Automated teh daily manual tasks using teh Automation Anywhere and created bots that runs on daily and weekly basis. Worked on advanced Automation Anywhere concepts such as surface automation for teh web application and created a clear process flow that is understandable in future. Created regular Bots that run on teh specified times in order to export all teh bank transactions and also keeps track on teh transactional information. Creating solution on process automation for different business applications such as windows based, web based, and java based. Managing governance and adopting Automation Anywhere best approaches. Created Automation Anywhere new objects and processes using work flows and work queues that are efficient, maintainable and well structured. Participated in creation of a process that involve in automation of web page and tested it by deploying teh process on to teh server in teh control room. Developed solutions using Robotic Process automation and maintained technical responsibility in project delivery. Involved in feasibility study for Robotic Process Automation implementation by developing proof of concept (POC) and validating it with proof of value (POV). Created architecture documentation for RPA Automation Anywhere Documentation. Worked on advanced Automation Anywhere technology for Web services which has reduced teh overall development and maintenance by 50%. Automated gathering details of teh claim and match them to teh criteria to process it. Analyzed information, reported results, Technical understanding, Promoted process, Improvement, Managed processes. Designed all teh processes it teh way it is simple to understand when it is referred and halping in reducing teh effort to reduce teh cycle time, avoid rework, eliminated inspections and quality control steps and prevent errors using Business process mapping technique(BPM). SQL Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Developed Oracle PL/SQL stored procedures, Functions, Packages, SQL scripts to facilitate teh functionality for various modules. Migrated logical and physical models from SQL Server 2000, SQL Server 2008, and Microsoft Access to Oracle database. Prepared detailed statistical reports in MS Access and MS Excel to track progress of weekly, monthly and quarterly customers and sales growth. Test case & release notes preparation, execution and verification of teh test results. Actively participated in project phases and reported status to Project Manager. Used linked tables, pass through queries and many other access features also wrote code in Visual Basic to perform some complex reporting tasks. Created ad-hoc reports using SQL server 2005 Reporting Services (SSRS). Created DTS and SSIS package to schedule teh jobs for batch processing. SQL Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Interacted with Team and Analysis, Design and Develop database using ER Diagram, Normalization, and relational database concept. Worked as a developer in creating complex Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursors, Tables, Views, Indexes, and SQL joins. Developed complex T-SQL code for data retrieval and user defined functions. Optimized teh query performance with modification in T-SQL queries, removing unnecessary columns, eliminating redundant and inconsistent data, establishing necessary joins, creating useful clustered index and non-clustered indexes. Maintained teh physical database by monitoring performance, integrity and optimize SQL queries for maximum efficiency using SQL Profiler. Worked with SQL queries for data manipulations, Data extraction and Data Mapping. Experience in SQL joins, sub queries, tracing, and performance tuning for better running of queries. Worked on existing complex SQL Codes to fix teh errors and change teh procedures to match teh requirements for various business reasons. Applying constraints and writing triggers to apply teh business rules. Backing Up & Restoring User Databases. Prepare detailed statistical in MS Access and MS Excel to track progress of weekly, monthly, and quarterly customers and sales growth.