SUMMARY Certified Scrum Master Professional around 8 years of experience in the IT industry with around 7 years of rich experience as aScrumMaster. Assisted the team in tracking and communicating team progress and metrics. Great facilitator and conflict management skills to derived project successfully. Understanding of SDLC; involved in all phases from Planning to the Implementation stage. In depth noledge and experience in Classic Waterfall, Tailored, Agile - SAFe/Scrum methodology. Coordinate stakeholders and customers in feature & story planning, definition, and delivery. Facilitate & track PI Planning readiness/events, and coordinate team PI objectives into an overall PI Program. Good noledge of Quality Assurance Process using the methodologies such as Agile-Scrum, Waterfall, V-Model, TDD and Tailored SDLC. Experienced in designing workflows and their elaboration according to Change Management. principals;BusinessProcessMapping andBusinessProcessRe-engineering utilization in mapping, modeling and structuring of the EnterpriseBusinessProcessHierarchy. In-depth understanding of the cultural and organizational changes dat are involved in anagileimplementation. Worked with Product and engineering to ensure the right level of understanding and the right culture/process exists for decomposition from high level feature to atomic work unit in a story or task. Experienced in conducting JAD sessions - participated in varied roles ranging from facilitator, preparing visual aids, setting goals and objectives, providing read-ahead materials and time-boxed agenda to participants. Experience in conducting GAP Analysis, Feasibility Analysis, ROI, Impact Analysis, SWOT Analysis, Cost Benefit Analysis, Risk Analysis and Business Process Engineering by using Business Analysis tools. Experience in all phases of software deployment life cycle including application demos, requirement analysis, business analysis, design and construction phases of application development, change management, ongoing support. Experienced in performing checks for data completeness, accuracy, transformation and quality to reconcile the data. Designed, created, and documented process flows, technical requirements, specifications, flow diagrams, scenarios, mockups, and/or models for the development team. Experienced in working with multiple/cross-functional groups, conducting brainstorming / root cause analysis sessions. Experienced with defect management process including re-testing of system and integration defects and test cases. Ensured teams always have the appropriate direction and priority to remain on track to reach internal and customer commitments and deadlines. Proficiency in SharePoint, MS-Project, Excel and MS-Visio. Responsible to track, document, capture, manage and communicate the Requirements using Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) which halped in controlling numerous artifacts produced by the teams across the deliverables for a project. Used various Excel features like pivot tables for better reporting of the data extracted from various databases. Experience in working with QA Teams in defining the Test Plans, Test Cases and conducted User Acceptance Testing (UAT). TECHNICAL SKILLS Business Process Modeling Tools: MS Visio, Enterprise Architect, Smart Draw Databases: Toad for Oracle, SQL Defect Tracking and Testing Tools: Quality Center, JIRA, Ready API Methodologies: Agile-SAFe/Scrum, Waterfall, Hybrid SDLC Office Suite: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook Requirements Management Tools: Rally, Doors, Confluence, JIRA, Kanban Version Controlling: Microsoft SharePoint PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, O’Fallon, MO Scrum Master Responsibilities: Facilitated meetings including: Daily Stand-up, Iteration planning, Iteration Review, and Retrospective. Supported the Product Owner - manage the backlog and guide the team while facilitating a healthy team dynamic with respect to priorities and scope. Eliminated impediments by removing blockers and allows the team to remain focused on achieving the objectives of the iteration. Coordinates with other teams - representative at the Scrum of Scrums (SoS) meetings; pass information from meeting back to the team; identify and communicate dependencies; communicate blockers, etc Track and escalate impediments to address. Remind team of Retro item follow-ups/action items. Run daily scrums, get updates from people dat cannot attend and follow up on open items. Facilitates the actions of Grooming and pointing stories for slotting. Escalate and bring issues to the Leadership/Management Teams. Provided the group with updates on the state of grooming for upcoming projects. Bring concerns around the ability to groom stories for upcoming projects. Responsible for making sure the backlog is properly groomed in Rally. Coaching theAgile Team in organizational environments in whichAgile is not fully adopted and understood Helping employees and stakeholders understand and enactAgile and empirical product development Facilitates Retrospective at the end of each Iteration. Confidential, New York City, NY Scrum Master/Agile Analyst Responsibilities: Created and Maintain Product Backlog. Facilitated Weekly Grooming Sessions with team, Daily Stand ups, Sprint Review meetings. Assisted team with making appropriate commitments through story selection, sizing and task definition and participated proactively and maintained best practices which reduced development time by 25%. Proposed and implemented Agile and Lean processes to streamline the work and deliverables. Configured Project Management and Bug Tracking Tool (JIRA) web application for feature requirements, change requests and defects tracking. Managed and build sprint boards and managing backlogs in JIRA. GuidedScrumteams on Agile/Scrumpractices and coach them to achieve higher goals and setup cohesive work environment. Tracked and managed original and remaining estimated hours in JIRA/TFS and shared Sprint Burndown in daily standups. Charted the scope of the project and created a detailed work plan in collaboration with senior management. Successfully prepared and managed operation and interim timelines for production support activities. Acted as key point of contact and arranged weekly status calls with client to ensure the project deliverables are on time, within budget and of high quality. Maintained and presented expense reports and variance to senior management on a weekly basis. Conducted interviews with the key internal and external stakeholders to gather and document requirements. Ensure cross-team coordination. Maintain relevant metrics dat halp the team see how they are doing. Prepared test plans and executed test cases for User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Validated business/finance reports by extracting data from database using SQL as per business rules. Facilitated UAT sessions, performed regression and other testing on a legacy system. Confidential, McLean, VA Scrum Master Responsibilities: Carried out daily stand-up meetings, reviews, retrospectives, sprint and release planning, demos, and otherScrum-related meetings for three teams. Facilitated and time-boxedScrumceremonies. Helped negotiating commitments and assured parallel understanding of requirements and deliverables amongst all stakeholders in Sprint Planning Meetings. Managed teams doing a combination of Waterfall with dailyScrumfor development. Used JIRA tool for managingScrum artifacts and team performance.Handled requirement churn during the project by performing Impact Analysis by checking the feasibility in maintaining the triple constraint and discussing them in dailyScrum. Worked with the product owner,scrumteam and shared resources on feature delivery and releases. Facilitate the development and delivery of systems architectures and technical capabilities between engineering and product teams dat drive market leading features into our customer’s hands. Implemented SAFe development and Kanban for managing software development process. Worked to remove impediments during sprints. Ascertained effective communication among everyone involved in the project or feature release. Worked with the product owner to manage the backlog - including definition, grooming, and prioritization. Produced burn down and velocity reports and used Kanban in managing the project. Confidential, Chicago,IL Agile Business Analyst/Scrum Master Responsibilities: Lead design sessions with external vendors and internal resources dat allowed the team to come to an agreement on a new overall design for the Trader Workstation (TWS) experience. Gathered all the functional, non-functional requirements and facilitated discussions to baseline the requirements. Facilitate requirements gathering sessions to understand and documentbusinessneeds, eliciting hidden requirements and/or clarifying vague or unclear requirements while supporting opportunities for process improvements and automation. Coordinated SIT and UAT testing across over fifteen PrimeBrokeragework stream applications encompassing planning, organizing, and managing multiple test environments & cycles. Led reviews with Risk & Audit groups to determine quality of BRDs, FRDs, technical specifications, test strategy, test plans, and test cases. Worked with multiple IT teams across PrimeBrokerageto ensure concerns cited by internal audit were tracked and closed to completion. Coaching the team level SAFeevents including with the Innovation Planning Sprints, Inspect & Adapt, and Quantitative analysis of Metrics Interviewed and provided walk through on system functional requirements to the development team. Extensively used JIRA to capture Business Requirements and Confluence as a Team Collaboration Software. Conducted in scrum-of-scrum meetings and assist in ongoing coordination of corporate wide roadmaps to ensure alignment between teams across the organization. Confidential, New York Business Systems Analyst/Scrum Master Responsibilities: Acted as a business analyst specialist for the Global Markets Regulatory Reporting programs - running requirements for both legacy and newly build regulatory reporting domains. Reviewed high level stories dat have already been created and discuss the the development/testing plan. Liaise with stakeholders in Front, Middle and Back office to document business and operational processes. Suggested solutions to Regulatory Reporting issues and facilitate resolution between Compliance and various technology teams. Worked closely with Technology stakeholders to understand requirements and agree on strategic technical solutions Provided a point of SME noledge through each stage of the project delivery. Defined user acceptance test criteria and provide support to testers. Worked on product backlog grooming sessions and maintained product backlog throughout all sprints. Served as a coordinator for off-shore developers in preparation for go-live. Conducted a Current State Assessment, Gap Analysis, and provided options for UAT process enhancements and framework. Confidential Business Analyst Intern Responsibilities: Manage Scope and change throughout the life cycle of the product. Coordinated and conducted system requirements walkthroughs/sessions (JRDs/JADs) with business owner/stakeholders/SMEs as well as design/development teams. Worked with business area SMEs/analysts to develop and finalize test plans/scripts/use cases. Analysis of key business requirements and assisted in the development of Business Requirement (BRS), Functional Requirement (FRS), and System Requirement Specification (SRS). Manipulated data using pivot tables, pivot charts, etcetera to create output of capabilities needed. Used MS Visio for data modeling. Collected data for internal users to track interaction between user and system. Worked intimately with business domain to gain full noledge of the flow of business. Alignment of scope, processes, skills set and KPI with market expectations.