SUMMARY Over 9 Years of real time experience in in business intelligence lifecycle projects from requirement gathering, documentation, data analysis, modeling, development, testing, production, deployment and support. Certified Qlik Sense and Qlikview Consultant. Around 3 Years of experience in Qlik Sense. Worked on all versions of Qlik Sense from version 1 to version 3.1 More than 6 Years of QlikviewDevelopment Experience in Agile development environment from Qlikview version 9 to 12 Expert in Extracting, Transforming, Analyzing, Visualizing, and presenting data from diverse business areas in novel and insightful ways to take informed action. Expert in Qlik Sense Datamodelling Expertise in Qlikview and Qlik Sense Administration. Implemented Qlik Center of Excellence. Expertise in creating the Qlikview/Qlik SenseApps. Expertise in Qlik Sense performance optimization. QlikSense Extension development. Customized the Extensions in java script. Experience in Embedding and Mashups. Expertise in Advanced Set Analysis Building the QlikSense Governance dashboard. Built the QlikSense Shared persistence. Expertise with2 - tier implementation and QVD Data Warehouse implementation Expert in using the QRS, QPS, QES APIs and building the automated solutions in Qlik Expertise in implementing the Section Access. Implemented all levels of security at row level, field level, and sheet level. Expertise in Incremental Load. Experience in Nprinting with QlikSense. Expertise with Qlik implementation in large enterprises. Excellent knowledge and work experience on Qlik Sense Hub, QMC, Proxy, QIX, Qlik Sense Scheduler(QSS), Qlik Sense Repository(QRS) and QVF Expert in all administration functions ofQlikSense like SAML integration, User directory and Security Rules. Expert in implementing the Governed QlikSense environment. Experienced in full life cycle development of BI solutions such as gathering requirements, documentation, designing, implementation, testing and deploying and also in agile development. Worked in multi clustered environment for Qlik sense Expert in handling production issues like report failures, missing counts in reports, resolving synthetic keys, Loops. Excellent communication, interpersonal, analytical skills and strong ability to perform as part of a team. Defining the tasks depending based on requirements. Upgrading Qlikview server and publisher software to the latest version. Monitoring the server logs as needed to find out if any job failures and implement qlik view ops monitor system monitor dashboards to check user and server performance. Working knowledge of Tableau, and SAP Business Objects. Expert in NPrinting report distribution. TECHNICAL SKILLS Business Intelligence Tools: Qliksense 3.1,3.0,2.1, QlikView 12/11.2/ 10X/9X, Business Objects, Tableau ETL Tools: Informatica Power Center 8.x/7.x, Microsoft SSIS Databases: Teradata, GreenPlum, SQL Server, Hadoop, Oracle 11g/10g/9i, IBM DB2, Sybase, MS Access 2000 and SAP BW. Programming tools: Java Script, D3, HTML, CSS, VB Scripting Operating Systems: Windows XP/NT/2000, Windows Vista, Unix. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Sr. Qlik Sense and Qlikview Consultant Confidential, NewYork, NY Responsibilities: Experienced in full life cycle of QlikView and Qlik Sense application implementation and was responsible for Design, Development and Delivery. Lead developer of the Qlikview/Qlik Sense environment and supporting the business decisions. Qlik Sense Data Modeling and Development. Built few Qlik sense extensions in house using java script. Performance and Scalability test using JMETER Building automated solutions using APIs. QlikSense administration. Qliksense performance optimization. Customizing the Mashups and Widgets. Customizing the Extensions using D3 and Qlik APIs Data modeling, analysis, design, testing, development and implementation Fixing Complex issues using Advanced Set analysis. Advanced aggregation and SQL scripting. Qliksense integration with Sales force. Installed, configured and upgraded Qlik Sense with SAML authentication. Strong experience in enhancing the already existed extensions using Java script both in Qlikview and Qlik Sense. Data modeling, analysis, design, testing, development and implementation Building the Qlik Sense governance Model . Building the Governance dashboard for QlikSense. Fixing Complex issues using Advanced Set analysis. Implemented all levels of security at row level, field level, and sheet level. Building the Self-service Model Creating dashboards by extracting data from database write and externalize the load scripts, store the data as QVD files and designing the UI based on business/user requirements. Created macros in VBScript to meet the business requirements. Qlikview data modeling by building the Star schema and resolving loops/synthetic keys. Creating new extensions using the Qlikview API and using effectively in dashboards. Building the user friendly interface by modifying the QVPP files in the extension. So that users can use the extensions effectively. Implemented the Various scenarios of section access. Created and Scheduled Weekly QlikView reports to distribute on email using NPrinting and publisher. Worked independently in building the Self-service template for users. So that it can reload the data sources per user requirement without any need of load script. Expertise with Qliksense management console. Designed and developed user manuals, product documentation using technical skills. Direct interaction with business analysts and managers on daily basis. Environment: Qlik Sense 3.1,3.0,2.2,2.1,1.1, QlikView 12,11, Business Objects, Tableau, Oracle 10g/11g, MS Access, Spotfire, NPrinting 17, Teradata, MS SQL server, SAP BW Sr. QlikSense/Qlikview Developer Confidential, Allentown, PA Responsibilities: Full life-cycle development and implementation of QlikSense/QlikView for a packaged Help Desk/Service Desk module. Involved in Analysis, design, installation & implementation of the BI solution. Converted and enhanced an older Oracle Discoverer BI solution and implemented QlikView. Extracted data from the database, stored into QVD files, and wrote load scripts. Building the Qlik Sense dashboards from scratch. Eliminated Synthetic keys, ambiguous relationships and closed loops. Designed proficient dashboards according to the requirements. Enhanced existing dashboards with new functionalities and established a secure environment using Qliksense/QlikView Section Access. Created Input boxes, Pivot Tables, Straight Tables, Bar Charts, Buttons, Multi boxes on the UI to make it more accessible to User community. Implemented drill down and cyclic dimensions. Worked on integrating NPrinting setup with Qlikview reports for creating automated Pixel Perfect reports and Office Reports. Handled end to end integration for NPrinting setup in Microsoft. Worked on complex SQL of multi joins, sub queries and unions. Worked with bulk volumes of data and extracted them from various sources like excel, Oracle, SQL Server through ODBC and OLEDB connections. Interact with senior managers for gathering requirements and presenting them with Health insurance analytical information. Created multiple database objects of tables, views and materialized views. Developed dashboards for data analysis with strong programming skills. Creating dashboards by extracting data from database write and externalized the load scripts, store the data as QVD files. Use of Set analysis and aggregation functions for sheet objects. Qlikview data modelling by building the Star schema and resolving loops/synthetic keys following Qlikview dashboards optimization. Implemented the Various scenarios of section access. Created macros in VBScript and building the Qlikview extensions. Use of Set analysis and aggregation functions for sheet objects. Strong working experience in Load script and Data modelling. Working with all types of data loads and functions like Automap. Debugging the Qlikview server issues through server logs, Fiddler logs. Environment: QlikSense 1.0/2, QlikView10, NPrinting 16.0.0, QlikView dashboard, Business Objects, SVN, Oracle 10g/11g, Subversions, MS Access, OBIEE, MS SQL server, SAP BW Sr. Qlikview Consultant Confidential, Raritan, NJ Responsibilities: Interact with senior managers for gathering requirements and presenting them with analytical information. Developed dashboards for data analysis with strong programming skills. Creating dashboards by extracting data from database write and externalized the load scripts, store the data as QVD files. Use of Set analysis and aggregation functions for sheet objects. Qlikview data modelling by building the Star schema and resolving loops/synthetic keys. Implemented the Various scenarios of section access. Created macros in VBScript. Design and Develop NPrinting scheduled reports. Use of Set analysis and aggregation functions for sheet objects. Qlikview dashboards optimization. Strong working experience in Load script and Data modelling. Building the Qlikview extensions. Qlikview administration. Working with all types of data loads and functions like Automap. Debugging the Qlikview server issues through server logs, Fiddler logs. Working knowledge in SAP Business Objects (3.1, 4.0) and CMC. Environment: Qlikview11, QV publisher, QV access points, QMC, QVWS, SQL server2008, CSS, HTML, NPrinting12.3, Toad, Share-point BI Analyst Confidential Responsibilities: Involved in Gathering requirements, analyzing the business specifications and the reporting issues provided by the End users and Developed specification documents for reports as per client requirements. Interacted with Development and Management Teams. Used Framework Manager to import metadata from multiple data sources, to Design and Develop the Framework Manager models. Created Packages and published to the Cognos Connection. Scheduling and distributing the reports using Cognos administration. Designed and developed the reports using Cognos 8 Report Studio, Query Studio, and Analysis Studio. Knowledge on creating and maintain reports in OBIEE and Business objects. Involved in testing the reports and enhanced the performance of the reports by writing Complex SQL queries. Involved in moving to Deployment, UAT and Production. Environment: Cognos 8.3/8.4 Suite (Cognos Connection, Framework Manger, Report Studio, Query Studio, Analysis Studio, Cognos Office Connection), Oracle 10g, Cognos Access Manger, SQL Server 2005 