SUMMARY Over 7 years of experience in IT industry with around years’ experience in the Salesforce.com CRM both as Administrator and Developer in Salesforce.com Sales, service, Marketing, Customer Service and Support Administration. Experience in Java/J2EE Technologies includes Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Applications. Experienced in Salesforce.com Apex Classes, Apex triggers Integration, Visual force. Hands on experience in Salesforce.com CRM integration, developing and deploying custom integration solutions. Professional experience in integrating salesforce with third party legacy applications using SOAP API, REST API, Chatter for data migration and functional integration. Technical Knowledge in Lightning Experience and Lightning App Builder Hands on Experience in handling Outboundand Inbound Email Services . Hands on Experience in writing Batch Apex and Schedule apex to handle Bulk operations using nightly schedule Experience with Outlook Integration, Single Sign On, and SalesForce to SalesForce functionality's. Experience building reports and dashboards, customizing them as per user requirements Strong knowledge of marketing, sales and service clouds. Strong Knowledge on Customizing the standard functionalities using Extensions and standardSetControllers and s - controller. Hands on Experience building custom UI Pages using Visualforce,Custom Visulaforce Components. Extensive knowledge on Scripting using HTML,CSS,Javascript,Ajax, Jquery. Proficient in creating custom objects, custom Tabs, custom fields, Pick list values, Role based page layouts, Workflow Alerts and Actions, Workflow Rules and Approvals, Validation Rules, Custom reports and Report extractions to various formats. Expertise in SFDC Administrative tools like, Managing users, Data Management, Domain Management, Generating Reports, Dashboards, Communication Templates, Tasks and Events. In-depth understanding of CRM business processes and management of Lead, Order, Account, Case and Campaign. Created relationships between objects like Master-Detail, Lookup, Entity relationship, Data model etc. Extensive hands on administrative tasks like designing of custom objects, custom fields, and role based page layouts, profiles, users, reports, dashboards, email services, lookup and master detail relationships Strong knowledge about Sales cloud, Service cloud, Marketo configuration and customization and good understanding with Client/Server architecture, Object-Oriented design techniques and web application design. Experience evaluating and integrating SalesForce AppExchange solutions within overall implementation. Experience in SFDC Integration using Web Service and Apex Programming, Salesforce Service Cloud expertise. Ability to interact with technical and functional staff at all levels and excellent oral, written communication and presentation skills. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, West Lake TX Salesforce Administrator/Developer Responsibilities: Performed the roles ofSalesforce Developer and Administrator in the organization. Interacted with different business teams and developing teams to acquire the requirements and documentation of business and technology requirements. Developed Custom objects, Custom fields, Tabs, Record types as per the requirements of the organization.Salesforce developer Technical Knowledge in Lightning Experience and Lightning App Builder Automated business logics in the organization using validation rules, workflow rules and apex triggers. Created and configured Page layouts and search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components in detail and edit pages of records. Created complex workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates. Enhanced the security by configuring profiles, organization wide defaults, sharing rules and roles. Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects Developed apex controllers and extensions along withVisualforce pagesfor better UI and functioning. Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to better utilize Sales force as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the needs of the organization. Created custom Dashboards for manager's home page and gave accessibility to dashboards for authorized people. Used Data Loader for insert, update, bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com sObjects used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files. UsedSalesforce.comdevelopertoolkit including Apex Classes, Controllers and Triggers, Visualforce, Force.com IDE, Migration Tool, Web Services API. Create/setup Sandbox for user testing and migrate code from development org to other sandbox and production orgs, and vice versa using Force.com IDE. Confidential, San Antonio TX Salesforce Administrator/Developer Responsibilities: Performed Requirement Gathering for client preferences and data management. Documented and shared the requirements with SalesForce.com consultants for further implementation. Designed pages on lightning Closely worked with SalesForce.com consultants while implementing the solutions for the needs of organization. Created new custom objects, assigned fields, designed page layouts, components as needed to meet design specifications. Configured different roles, profiles, and accounts in Salesforce.com Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Opportunities, Activities, and Dashboards. Customized the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their salesteams. Customized tabs for among different business users groups and business centers. Configuring fields, workflow, reports, templates Create various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements. Administer security for users, add/remove users, controls, and settings. Perform Salesforce customization that can be handled by System Administrator. Perform day to day salesforce.com operations - bulk data migration, user management, object & field customization, etc. Maintained the client relationship by communicating the daily statuses and weekly statuses of the project. Planned Backup strategy based on projects requirements. Worked with DTS packages and MSOLAP Services. Maintained the consistency of the client's Database using DBCC. Environment: SalesForce.com Platform, S-Controls, Salesforce.com Custom Objects, HTML, Java Script, Workflows, Reports, Force.com Eclipse Plug-in, SalesForce.com sandbox. MS SQLServer2000, MS Access, Query Analyzer, DTS, BCP, SQL Profiler, Import & Export Data, Windows 2000 Server. Confidential Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Analyzed the existing system and migrated into Salesforce Freezing of requirements based on Business team inputs, detailed analysis of the application in collaboration with the client Business team. Preparing Data Model and get it reviews with client technical architects. Creating the objects and developing the UI based on client requirement using the declarative approach of Salesforce.com Involved in BSR (Business System Requirements) meetings and requirements specifications, documenting the functional and non-functional requirements and was part of designing key solutions needed for project's progress. Implementing the security and sharing rules. Hands on experience on Batch/Real Time Data migration tasks. Defining Validation rules, Work flows and Approval process based on the client requirements. By using Apex Data Loader importing data into Salesforce cloud. Generating reports and Dashboards. Creating users to check whether the security model defined is working properly or not. Perform the unit testing in the UI to ensure that the code developed has no bugs both technically and functionally Interacting with the Client team and resolving the issues. Environment: Apex, Visual force, Apex Classes, Apex triggers, Visual force, Pages, Batch Apex, Schedule Apex, Workflows and Approvals, Data Warehousing, Case Management, Automation, Sandbox testing. Confidential, Warren, NJ Salesforce Administrator Responsibilities: Gathered requirements and developing client-specific solutions by understanding customer's business and technical environment. Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects. Created Custom Profiles, Public Groups and Roles to distribute user rights and functionality. Designed, and developed the Custom objects, Formula fields, validation rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual ForcePages to suit to the needs of the application Developed design document for data loader based integration. Functional Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Triggers, and packages for various needs in the application. Environment: Force.com IDE, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, VisualForce pages, Validation Rules, Formula Fields, Data Loader, Reports and Dashboards, Workflow & Approvals, Web Services. Confidential, Boston Salesforce Administrator/Developer Responsibilities: Involved in various activities of the project, like information gathering, analyzing the information, and documenting the functional and non-functional requirements. Configured the User permissions based on the organizational hierarchy. Created custom objects, Visual pages, triggers, validation rules by using Apex Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports and Dashboards. Designed, and developed the Custom objects, Record Types, Report Types, Formula fields, Page layouts, workflow rules, tasks, Field Updates, emails and alerts to track customer related tasks and activities. Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization. Confidential Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Performed the role of Salesforce Developer in the organization. Responsible for various salesforce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, Reports and Dashboards. Implemented Web-to-lead to track and solve leads from the company website. Created different workflow rules and Approvals for various campaign processes. Creating a sync of contacts, email alerts, events and tasks between Salesforce to Outlook and Outlook to Salesforcesuccessfully. Created many Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the Mail Merge for different standard and custom objects. Designed, and developed the Custom objects, validation rules, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, VisualForce Pages to suit to the needs of the application. Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application. Integrated with PeopleSoft at the back end with Salesforce as User Interface and it is a bi-directional integration using Informatica on demand. Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, Reports, Workflow & Approvals, Web Services, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE. Confidential, IL Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization. Interacted with various business team members (JAD Sessions) to gather the requirements and documented the requirements. Worked with various Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns,Reports, and Dashboards. Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visualforce Pages. Create and Customize Custom Objects, Formula Fields, Cross Object Formulas, Roll up summary fields, validation rules, dependent picklists and complex page layouts. Create complex workflows and Approval processes. Implemented Data segregation through Record Types and Field level security. Developed and maintained validation rules and custom workflow. Used eclipse Force.com toolkit for creating Apex Classes and Apex Triggers to develop custom logic and objects. Audited, uncovered and resolved data integrity issues with legacy systems. Complete bulk imports of data using Apex Data Loader. Developed and maintained custom reports. Batch reassignment of accounts and opportunities based on organizational changes. Prepared training materials for business use. Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows. Confidential Salesforce Developer Responsibilities: Worked based on the Agile Process Responsible for Admin activities like customizing custom fields, Page Layouts, Record Types, Workflows. Creation of Page layout for custom object as well as standard objects for respected Profiles. Configure and Set up relationship between various objects using look up and master detail relationship Experienced in writing Apex classes, batch apex, scheduled apex, triggers and workflows. Creation of Visual Force page and Apex classes. Approval Process, Validation Rules, Report Types. Responsible for Loading data into salesforce.com using Apex Data Loader, Import Wizar Responsible for migrating data from one Sandbox environment to another Sandbox environment using Force.com IDE tool and Change Sets. Responsible for writing Test Scripts for various scenarios Worked on Apex Triggers and Apex Classes for custom logic. Environment: SFDC, Apex, Data Loader, Force.com, Import Wizard, Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visual Force Pages, XML, Triggers, API. 