SUMMARY A Business Data Analyst with experience in business process analysis/modeling, business requirements gathering, Business Process Modeling, Enterprise Data warehousing, Data Mapping, Evaluating Data Sources, database design and development of Web Based, and Client/Server applications. Worked on ULAD mapping to different communities like GPC, SER, CRA - MBA, LP, AA, IVAN and HVS. Excellent understanding of Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) advanced SQL queries/scripts to fetch/map the data from Data store and executing test plans and test cases. Worked extensively on Gathering/Collecting requirements for Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) project aimed at creating main repository of the organization historical data. Used advanced SQL queries/scripts to fetch/map the data from Data store. Collecting requirements for commercial loan data, retail data, credit card data, and mortgagee data portfolios. Knowledge of implementing software development projects using methodologies such as Agile, Waterfall, Rational Unified Process, and Agile/Scrum. Strong experience in conducting User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and documentation of Test Cases. Expertise in designing and developing Test Plans and Test Scripts. Expertise in Performance Management, Asset Management, Credit Management, Client Reporting and implementing its benefits. Worked on CCAR (Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review) and Stress testing scenario management. Worked on CCAR templates (14 M, 14 Q and 14 A schedule preparations & DFAST/ Stress testing). Created TDA (Tactical Data Acquisition) files based on the data quality issues found for the CCAR fields (Comprehensive capital analysis and review) Performed Data mining techniques to extract the data from large data source for analysis and reporting. Excellent Business writing skills in writing Business requirements document BRD, Use Case Specifications, Functional Requirement Specifications FRS, Software Design Specification SDS, Software Requirements Specification (SRS), Data Dictionary, Workflows and Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams such as Activity diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams. Knowledge of Mortgage Products, Pricing, Loan origination, Risk compliance and Document Management Systems. Maintained Glossary of attributes, interacted with Business and did analysis (eliminate redundancy) on adding new attributes to Glossary. IAM (Integration Access Management) for safe and secure user authentication. Good Knowledge of various financial products like Stocks, Bonds, Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS), Collateral Mortgage Obligation (CMO), and Fixed Income Instruments. Successful in translating business requirements and user expectations into detailed specifications employing Unified Modeling Language (UML) using Rational Rose & MS Visio. Expertise in using Rational tools for creating use cases, version control, and defect tracking and monitoring and used the Rational Unified Process (RUP) methodology in all areas of the software development life cycle (SDLC). Worked on data stagin and migrating data from source system (MSP/ALS/TSYS/APPRO/EMPOWER) to companies datastore through ETL process (Informatica and SSIS) Experience with designing and verifying databases on Oracle and SQL Server RDBMS using Entity-Relationship Diagrams (ERD) and working knowledge of Python programming language. Performed Gap Analysis to check the compatibility of the existing system infrastructure with the new business requirements. Expertise in broad range of technologies, including business process tools such as Microsoft Project, Primavera, MS Access, MS Visio, technical assessment tools, Data Warehousing concepts and web design and development. Area of Expertise Data Mapping MS Access database. Oracle SQL Developer Advanced SQL queries Microsoft Visio Microsoft Outlook LAS (Loan Advisor Systems) Microsoft SharePoint Application Lifecycle Management Citrix Receiver Tactical Data Acquisition (TDA files) Visual Paradigm Enterprise Data Warehouse Knowledge of Tableau Requirement Analysis Data Mapping/Data Mining QA testing (Unit, Integration, Regression, UAT) Project Management Project Life Cycle Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) ETL (Informatica) JIRA Version One WINScp VMware Knowledge of R Script GRC (Governance and Risk Management) Approach PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Mc Lean, Virginia Business Data Analyst Responsibilities: Worked on LPA SER2/ROFM2 project and did analysis on the services/calculations peformed by DXC and how this can be done upfront in house in LPA/LQA. Understanding different Data elements used by DXC currently for performing Credit Scoring, Calculations and Validity checks. Worked with project stakeholders to understand the scope of the project and attended Analysis and Planning meetings. Worked on advanced SQL queries to fetch data from Data warehouse. Worked on understanding the overall flow/functionality of the LPA services on how the data is moved from LPA to DXC and how the request is raised to different services and what response is sent back by those services. Maintained meeting minutes for the meetings attended on the Sharepoint. Created a Data Lineage mapping document explaining how the data elements flows from one service to another and capturing the data logic/transformation in one single document which can be used by any services in Freddie as a reference. Worked with developers, stakeholders to understand the scope of the project. Worked with SME’s to understand the different data elements used by LPA and understand the definations and enumerations used in house. Utilized Agile/ SCRUM methodologies to monitor steer and develop project objectives. Extensively worked on “Version One” tool to create user stories. Attended daily Scrum meetings, Refinement and Grooming session. Maintained Glossary of attributes, interacted with Business and did analysis (eliminate redundancy) on adding new attributes to Glossary. Worked on Non Prod Environment to run test cases in WINScp and to capture the response provided by the CRA. Worked on Oracle SQL developer to fetch the reports by running SQL queries against the CDW data warehouse. Managed workload, schedules and coordinated status review meetings with project managers, business managers and team members. Confidential, Mc Lean, Virginia Senior Business Data Analyst Responsibilities: Did ULAD (Uniform Loan Application Dataset) mapping for different applications/services including LAS (Loan Advisor Systems). Utilized Agile/ SCRUM methodologies to monitor steer and develop project objectives. Maintained Glossary of attributes, interacted with Business and did analysis (eliminate redundancy) on adding new attributes to Glossary. Performed Data Analysis on existing and expired attributes and prepared a report of current Active data attributes in use. Performed Data mining to extract a bunch of data from large data source for reporting and anlaystics purpose. Understand current internal and external data source connections and created an inventory of attributes by multiple data profiling and mining. Managed workload, schedules and coordinated status review meetings with project managers, business managers and team members. Facilitated and managed meeting sessions with committee of SME from various business areas. Instrumental in doing Gap analysis for CDM to BIM migration which included Entity and Attributes missing and moved between containers (BIM was more destructive development). Providing analytical and technical support to the team to integrate the data from multiple source systems to a single source of information. Come up with requirements for creating interface mapping/governance, reengineering existing code between sources and target database or data mart. Used advanced SQL queries/scripts to fetch/map the data from Data store. Worked on data modeling and produced data mapping and data definition documentation. Scheduled meetings with developers, System Analysts and testers to collaborate resource allocation and project completion. Based on the analysis created XSD and tested the xml. Worked on GRC approach aiming to synchronize information and activity across governance in order to operate more efficiently and effectively. Assists in decision-making process for various business needs. Prepare briefing documents, reports, meeting agendas and presentation as directed. Work independently with IT, business clients and stakeholders under tight deadlines and refine their needs into a single consistent vision. Work with relevant software tools and technologies. Environment: Agile, Oracle, SQL Developer, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft SharePoint, MS Access Database, MS office, MS Word, MS Excel, Altova XML Spy 2018, Beyond Compare, Notepad++. Confidential, Honolulu, Hawaii Senior Business Data Analyst Responsibilities: Gathering/Collecting requirements for FHB Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) project aimed at creating main repository of the organization historical data. Used advanced SQL queries/scripts to fetch/map the data from Data store. Providing analytical and technical support to the team in order to integrate the data from multiple source systems to a single source of information. Collecting requirements for commercial loan data, retail data, credit card data, and mortgagee data portfolios. Testing, including: requirements, integration and data validation, to make sure that the data is correctly populated as per the requirements. Created TDA files for Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and Dodd Frank Act Stress Testing (DFAST). Worked with data governance team to write business definations for CCAR/DFAST project, supported data issue management framework and worked on data quality issues Worked on IAM (Integration Access Management) for safe and secure user authentication. Assists in decision-making process for various business needs. Preparing and executing test plans and test cases. Responsible for analyzing and designing processes and system to support stress testing requirements. Worked on CCAR (Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review) and Stress testing scenario management. Worked on CCAR templates (14 M, 14 Q and 14 A schedule preparations & DFAST/ Stress testing). Worked on System integration testing and User acceptance testing. Created TDA (Tactical Data Acquisition) files based on the data quality issues found for the CCAR fields (Comprehensive capital analysis and review) Worked on data stagin and migrating data from source system (MSP/ALS/TSYS/APPRO/EMPOWER) to companies datastore through ETL process (Informatica and SSIS) Documenting business, functional, data requirement for regulatory reporting /CCAR projects Prepare briefing documents, reports, meeting agendas and presentation as directed. Working closely with stakeholders to asses current state and perform Gap analysis. Work independently with IT, business clients and stakeholders under tight deadlines and refine their needs into a single consistent vision. Work with relevant software tools and technologies. Environment: Agile, Oracle SQL Developer, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft SharePoint, Application Lifecycle Management, MS office, MS Word, MS Excel, Citrix Reviewer. Confidential, New York Data Analyst / Business Analyst Responsibilities: Addressed all aspects of credit card business. Spread client financials; analyzecreditrisk, comment loan decision recommendations. Createcreditanalysisriskreports for weekly loan review committee meetings. Extensively involved in the development of Reporting Data Warehousing System. Worked closely with the Enterprise Data Warehouse team and Business Intelligence Architecture team to understand repository objects that support the business requirement and process. Interacted with other Business Analysts for designing and implementation of Use Cases and Test Plans. Involved in creating automated Test Scripts representing various Transactions, Documenting the Load Testing Process and Methodology. Created meaningful reports for analysis and integrated the Performance Testing in the SDLC. Peformed Data analysis techniques for Fraud Analytics/Detection like data matching, data mining, Gap Analysis, regression analysis. Conducted Functional Walkthroughs, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), and supervised the development of User Manuals for customers. Performed requirements gathering from the business users of the system while adhering to SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) industry best practices. Analyzed and Documented Business Requirement Document (BRD), Functional Specification Documentation, and System Requirement Documentation, using UML methodologies. Worked extensively with Risk Management, Mortgage Loan Servicing, and Commercial and Residential mortgage. Gathered requirements from JAD/JAR sections with developers and business clients. Designed the business requirement collection approach based on the project scope and SDLC methodology. Worked on data modeling and produced data mapping and data definition documentation. Use strong assessment and judgment skills; ability to understand and be proficient in all Mortgage Services technical systems to research extensive customer facts and history; and a demonstrated ability to work independently and in a team atmosphere. Involved in formatting data stores and generate UML diagrams of logical and physical data. Identified/documented data sources and transformation rules required to populate and maintain data warehouse content. Involved in requirement gathering and database design and implementation of star-schema, dimensional data warehouse using Erwin. Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database. Worked with data governance team on business definations and maintain business glossary. Helped with Data Mapping between the data mart and the Source Systems. Assisted in building a Business Analysis Process Model using Rational Rose and Visio. Performed extensive Requirement analysis and developed use cases and workflows. Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and OOD. Played a key role in the planning, User Accepted testing, and Implementation of system enhancements and conversions. Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database. Provided key input in working with users in defining project and system requirements. Developed business requirement specification documents as well as high-level project plan. Conducted benchmarking activities to identify best practices. Environment: Agile, Mainframes, Visual Basic, Oracle, Teradata, UNIX, Rose, MS office, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Visio. Confidential, Stamford, CT Business Analyst Responsibilities: Involved in Inception Phase and prepared vision statement and initial data models that contain Business Requirement Documents and supporting documents that contain the essential business elements and detailed definitions. Working with clients to better understand their needs and present solutions using structured SDLC approach. Utilized Agile/ SCRUM and PMI methodologies to monitor steer and develop project objectives. Authored test plans, test cases for various test scenarios and helped testing team to better understand the test scripts. Gather requirements for the listed options risk management system, specifically for index options risk management spreadsheet. Involved in gathering and preparing the requirements documents for replacing the existing commercial lines of businesses from legacy to web-based system. Prepared High Level Logical Data Models and BRD’s (Business Requirement Documents) supporting documents containing the essential business elements, detailed definitions, and descriptions of the relationships between the actors to analyze and document business data requirements. Facilitated Joint Requirement Planning (JRP) sessions with SME’s in understanding the Requirements pertaining to Loan Origination to Loan Processing. Gathered user and business requirements through open-ended discussions, brainstorming sessions and role-playing. Documented the user requirements Analyzed and prioritized them and converted them as system requirements that must be included while developing the software. Facilitated and managed meeting sessions with committee of SME from various business areas including Mortgage Servicing, Loan Monitoring and Asset Management. Established RUP (Rational Unified Process) methodology and provided assistance in developing Use cases and project plans. Used Query Analyzer, Execution Plan to optimize SQL Queries. Conducted user interviews, gathered requirements, analyzed the requirements by using Rational Rose, Visio and Requisite pro - RUP Planned and defined Use Cases created Use Case diagrams, Scenarios and Use Case Narratives using the UML methodologies. Created Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and ER Diagrams. Created Mock-up forms in MS word for better visualization and understanding of the software solution. Involved in gathering the requirement with the SMEs to get the maximum information about the work-stream including Mortgage Servicing, Loan Monitoring, and Asset Management. Tracked change requests and monitored workload and schedule. Facilitated JAD sessions with management, development team, users and other stakeholders to refine functional requirements. Scheduled meetings with developers, System Analysts and testers to collaborate resource allocation and project completion. Managed workload, schedules and coordinated status review meetings with project managers, business managers and team members. Identified various frequently used modules within the application as well as the peak user volume for load testing purposes. Analyzed the test results from QA teams using Performance Studio Analysis to create various scenarios. Developed strategies with Quality Assurance group to implement Test Cases in Test manager for User Acceptance Testing. Environment: Agile, Windows 2000 Advanced Server, UNIX / Oracle Platform, MS Visio, RUP, Rational Rose 2002, interwoven, Rational Clear Quest, Rational Clear Case, Rational requisite pro, rational test manager, MS Office, MS project, MS Word, MS Excel. Confidential, MO Business Data Analyst Responsibilities: Designed business requirement & systematic approach based on project scope and SDLC. Translated business requirements into functional requirements and prepared an extensive project plan to reduce inter-company transactions in equity derivatives and foreign exchange trades. Engaged in project planning - Built Project WBS (Work Breakdown Structure) and Project Timeline. Worked with Traders and Brokers teams to identify solutions driven by business requirements. Conducted evaluation of bank’s data governance structure and identified gaps in structure, data and systems. Responsible for business system analysis of customizing the BPS Risk Management product with involvement through the whole SDLC. Conducted User Acceptance Testing, gathered and documented User Manuals and Business Rules. Assisted with project team in the whole project lifecycle phases including scope analyzing, requirements gatherings, developments and quality assurance. Assisted project team in preparing Functional Specification Document (FSD), developed non-functional requirements, and documented Business Requirements Document (BRD). Planned and defined system requirements to Use Case, Use Case Scenario and Use Narrative using theBusinessProcessModelingNotation(BPMN). Conducted current state study which included data collection methodologies, data quality and data integration problems, data storage and infrastructure related issues. Facilitated joint application development (JAD) sessions by convening project sponsors, group representatives, SMEs’ and technical personnel and documented the minutes. Built analytical framework to quantify impact of inter-company trade aggregation on all the systems in the trade processing flow. Used SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) to perform bulk insert operations from SQL Server 2005 databases to flat files/CSV files and vice versa. Performance improvement of intra-day trading entries, security master file updates and security movement were some of the features of new system. Conducted analysis and optimization of trade processing flow, trade break investigation and liquidity analysis for equity derivative and foreign exchange products which resulted in 45% reduction in trade volume processed by technology systems. Developed custom reports and deployed them on server using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Worked with Operations Risk Management division to assess operational risk, determine impact of FX trade transactions on incident reporting. Worked on extracting transformation and loading of data from staging area to central data warehouse to create data marts in EDW. Managed and drove continuous improvements in HyperionEssbasedata cubes performed UAT testing and lead migration effort. Worked on Microsoft SQL server integration services SSIS foR ETL process. Environment: UML, RUP, MS Project, MS Visio, SQL Server, Essbase, Windows NT/XP, Java, HTML. Confidential, Oklahoma City, OK Data Analyst Responsibilities: Created Interface test cases, report test cases, expected results validation, defect tracking using clear quest, version control using Clear Case VOB. Used SQL queries for organizing and abstracting data from MS access data bases, created reports, forms on Ms Access. Introduced Agile and RUP methodologies to reflect liquid nature of front-office improving time-to-market. Monitored test scripts developed by QA team to check the integrity of the test plans. The project heads towards enhancing the existing online banking application by improving its GUI, making it user-friendlier. Captured requirements for monthly SL to GL postings, calculating GL beginning and ending balances. Defining requirements for product control and risk management end of day feeds. Captured Data flow diagrams and formatting of the data flowing through interfaces. Accumulated system requirements from various departments like accounting, IS (Information Systems) through surveys and interviews. Conducted JAD sessions with management, SME, vendors, users and other stakeholders for open and pending issues. Incorporated Rational Unified Process (RUP) to create Business Requirement Document Specifications using MS Visio and MS Word. Developed business process models in RUP to document existing and future business processed. Planned and defined system requirements to Wire Frames with Use Case, Use Case Scenario and Use Case Narrative using the UML (Unified Modeling Language) methodologies. Created Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and ER Diagrams in MS Visio. Responsible for meetings with users and stakeholders to identify problems, resolve issues and improve the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution. Created exceptions report which were then submitted to project lead and stakeholders on a regular basis. Facilitated user acceptance testing and test strategies with Information Systems Group. Performed manual front-end testing to check all functionalities of different modules. Suggested measures and recommendations to improve the current application performance with the aid of SCR’s (Small Change Requests). Developed strategies with Quality Assurance group to implement Test Cases in Mercury Test Director for stress testing and UAT (User Acceptance Testing). Trained the future users to coordinate their activities vis-à-vis CORD system rather than ARW. Assisted the SA to document all custom and system modification after the SCR’s were satisfactorily solved. Created and managed project templates, use case project templates, requirement types and traceability relationships in Requisite Pro and managed the concurrence of the parties involved with respect to the evaluation criterion. Environment: JSP, Oracle, HTML, XML,DOORS, Clear Case, Clear Quest, XSL, Cobol, Rational Rose, MS Visio, RUP, UML, MS Project, SQL, MS Access, MS Excel and MS Word, MS Office. 