SUMMARY Over 14 years of experience as QA and Business System Analyst in leading industries with exposure to various projects and working methodology. Performed Business, Systems and Technical analysis on several ecommerce sites and software platforms, delivering use case scenarios, test plans and test cases, and all documentation. Experienced as leading a QA team on multiple locations. Proficient in mobile testing, manual testing, end to end, regression, business validation testing, user acceptance testing, user interface testing, financial control testing, accessibility testing, black box and grey box testing and automation. Experienced as subject matter expert with full ownership of features. Embraced new technology tools with growth mindset for business productivity. Self - learner, detail oriented and problem solving skills to address ambiguity and data driven decisions. Effective communication to stakeholders via meetings and status reporting for product/project visibility. Acted as team player as well as individual to bring value to overall team collaboration. Extensive knowledge and experience in all phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and Software Testing Life cycle (STLC), delivering use case scenarios, designing test plans, test cases, and prioritizing them. TECHNICAL SKILLS Methodologies:  Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile /Scrum life cycle and Waterfall life cycle. Tools: /System: Salesforce, Quality Center, SAP, SQL, SharePoint, Rally, Pier, Test Rails, HP ALMJira, Visual Studio, TFS, Selenium Web driver with Java, MS Office, MS Power BI, MS Teams. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Business Systems Analyst Confidential, Bellevue, WA Responsibilities: Analyzed business requirements and use cases in order to design and develop UAT test plan, test cases for Confidential ’s order management systems (Rebellion Care, Retail, Web) and SAP Care. Functioned as subject matter expert (SME) for TMobile customer care, retail and SAP care to ensure project details are accurate and business deliverables meet business needs. Presented demos and provided assistance to management (VP and Director of Engineering) in proper and effective use of applications for feedback and business improvements. Participated in requirement analysis with Business stakeholders to identify priority and impact of test cases. Collaborated with cross functional teams to ensure complete coverage across system for key deliverables. Participated in Rebellion National launch from start to finish, part of monthly maintenance bundle releases and GO/ NO GO decisions to support new rebellion features enhancements. Drove collaborative efforts for the defects triaging, prioritizing, analyzing and escalating real production issues impacting customer experience. Tracked defects by performing root cause analysis by analyzing data quality issues with development team. Performed testing on e-commerce Confidential rebellion care, retail, web, SAP care systems on multiple browsers and devices (iOS, Android) on areas like product & service management, purchase order management, activation & set up a new customer, billing& charging, payment management, information & training management. Developed, participated and supported UAT, BVT, FCT testing in test and Production environment. Senior Tester Confidential, Bothell, WA Responsibilities: Reviewed business requirements, feature specification to prepared, execute and maintained test plan and high-level test scenario. Worked closely with Business, developers and cross group teams to ensure business requirements are achieved and targets are delivered. Developed and updated, test cases, test scripts for smoke, functionality, accessibility, and localization. Identified and reported defects in Quality Center. Performed all aspects of test including, smoke, functional, end to end, regression, reporting, and localization testing. Reported XML generated by API calls for issues and error logs files by system to development team. Worked closely with development to reproduce issues and fix as needed. Participated in daily defect resolution, status call with development, business and testers. Created and executed SQL queries to extract data from database for business analysis. QA Engineer II Confidential, Seattle, WA Responsibilities: Collaborated with Product management, development and other testers to ensure complete functional path coverage across all levels of applications. Developed and updated test plan, test cases in Test Rails for multiple projects. Involved in establishing and defining process. Performed functional testing of application components and interface developed by development team. Reported project status to development manager on a regular basis. Performed testing on various kindle tablets, android devices and browsers. Tracked defects in JIRA and Issues. QA Engineer Lead Confidential, Seattle, WA Responsibilities: Manage and Lead QA testing team in the planning, execution, and reporting (QA Metrics, QA Evaluation) of user acceptance testing activities to ensure that the results of complex enterprise software development using a combination of Agile and iterative methodologies. Worked closely with cross-functional team to improve product performance and reliability by discussing issues and evaluate product risks. Provide overall guidance and developed quality assurance strategy and test related documentations such as test scenario, test strategies, test plan, test cases and test reports. Assisted with design implementation and executed manual, automated and performance test script by interacting with development teams on regular basis for quality and localization testing. Participated in Defect review, incident management, root cause analysis and high risk reviews. Coordinated and actively participated in product release planning, design, requirement, and development meetings by making high impact decisions on behalf of QA team. Responsible for people management, including goal setting and providing performance feedback. SME and Point of contact for project team for all areas including triaging and signing off on projects for public release. Reviewed user story to ensure acceptance criteria are testable and validated user expectations are achieved during testing process. Debug and analyze issues using DDMS (Dalvik Debug Monitor Server) and adb tool. Viewed system debug output by logcat command. Pushed issues through a resolution. Performed functional, non-functional, regression, performance, sanity, smoke, and UAT testing in a strict agile development method. Familiar with Automation tool such as Robotium. Tracked testing details and defects in Quality Center, Rally and Jira. Help organized and triage defects for developers. Constantly strive to improve testing methodologies, models and process. Test Engineer Confidential, Bellevue, WA Responsibilities: Analyzed and reviewed business requirement, product requirement, functional specification to gain a thorough understanding of testing requirement. Performed E2E, functionality, regression, and UI testing on various devices. Collaborated with UAT team to test in parallel. Involved and handled projects simultaneously from full SDLC perspective, coordinating with cross-functional team from both Confidential and vendor side. Developed and involved in writing test plan, test case scenarios, and test strategy to validate product requirements. Designed and executed test script to evaluate product quality. Configured the testing environment appropriately and coordinate the test data. Configure internal tools (Epiphany, Odopt) to create marketing campaign proposals. Provided testing and defect status reports on daily basis to management and business stakeholders for better visibility. Participated and involved in daily status, sync up, and triage meetings for accurate project status. Document defects in Quality Center. Systems Analyst / Tester Confidential, Bellevue, WA Responsibilities: Performed regression, functional, UI and ad-hoc testing on web based online review application for every new build release in an agile scrum environment. Executed and regressed test cases for operating systems such as; XP, Vista, Win7 and browsers IE7/8/9. Updated test scripts and performed BVT for new builds. Executed SQL queries to validate data. Tracked and reported all defects in Visual Studio 2010 TFS. Involved in Dev/QA sprint planning, daily Scrum, weekly bug triage meetings. QE Test Engineer Confidential, Redmond, WA Responsibilities: Performed functional, regression and UI testing on multiple prototype and legacy mobile devices. Developed test cases for applications /game apps and updated test scripts to support requirement changes in Quality Center. Executed test cases and documented results in Quality Center. Executed SQL queries in Oracle to obtain GPS fixes. Reviewed and analyzed defects using Quality Center and attended bug triage meetings on a daily basis. Assigned tasks to preloads testing team members to ensure that all of them have sufficient work for each project. Communicated and escalated issues of applications and games with Confidential &T vendor and cross-functional team. Tracked and reported status for all completed devices on biweekly basis in excel sheet. Attended weekly device sync up meeting for any future upcomingdevices and escalated current issues on on-going projects. Attended weekly Confidential &T vendor coordinator and PM meetings to discuss any issues on devices/applications. Met strict deadlines for each test run in Quality Center. Software Design Engineer Confidential, Redmond, WA Responsibilities: Monitored stress environment on daily basis for Windows Live Mobile Services. Starting and stopping services on client machines. Propagating (Requesting) build when needed. Executed SQL queries and calculated errors to report it into Product Studio. Analyzed logs and disk space issues on virtual machine. Reported status for different areas of a project on daily basis. Actively participated in scrum meeting regarding projects and daily status. Software Test Engineer Confidential, Redmond, WA Responsibilities: Tested third party sites of various media net applications (web site, email, games, and sports) on mobile devices and tablets. Managed and maintained multiple projects on weekly basis in Excel by creating traceability metrics individually. Submitted project status to team lead. Successfully met strict application testing deadlines imposed for content release. Perform ad-hoc, and regression testing for media net application content using different devices. Document defects using Appflow tracking system. Complete tasks and resolve issues assigned by management involving testing activities and team coordination. Train new team members for Device Development Testing. Software Test Engineer Confidential, Mountlake Terrace, WA Responsibilities: Performed black-box, grey-box and regression testing on multiple Premera web-based application and learned fundamentals of test automation. Developed Test Cases based on functional specifications. Addressed questions regarding active defects and assisted in resolving issues raised by development teams during regular Bug Triage meetings by using PVCS configuration management tool. Attended review meeting and walkthroughs with PM and PO to better understand BRQ documents.