SUMMARY Over 11+ years of comprehensive experience in IT including 8+ years of experience in efficient, dynamic, result - oriented, development, administration and support of OLAP and decision support systems with focus on Oracle Hyperion Suite of Technology. Proficiency and experience in a range of Hyperion products including Essbase, Hyperion Planning, FDMEE, HFM, Hyperion Financial reporting and Smart View. Expertise in version upgrades, migration, development and administration of Financial Budgeting and Forecasting OLAP applications with Essbase and Planning. Proficient in designing and developing Planning and Essbase applications with excellent balance of dense and sparse dimensions, developing various OLAP Models & Meta-Outlines across Block Storage (BSO) and Aggregate Storage (ASO). Proficiency in maintaining Essbase, managing database settings, optimizations, thorough understanding of ASO and BSO cube architecture, attributes, Essbase Cache settings, optimizing calculations and reports. Experience in working through all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SLDC) including the design, development, implementation, and maintenance of financial applications. Expertise in administrative tasks of Planning, Essbase, HFM and FDMEE: Managing applications and databases, Essbase architecture, data and dimension loading, Calc Scripts, Business Rules, MaxL, MDX scripting, User security and Performance tuning. Substantial experience in project requirement gathering, functional design of the application, creating, maintaining, and supporting all application objects including Calculation scripts, Business rules, rules files, Batch scripts, Maxl scripts, security objects etc. Knowledge and experience in Automation using batch scripts and Power shell scripts. Extensive experience with upgrades and migrations of EPM applications. Experience in migrating Planning, Essbase, HFM and FDMEE applications between environments (Dev, Test, Prod). Strong problem-solving, communication, interpersonal, training, and presentation skills. Versatile team player with excellent analytical, presentation and interpersonal skills with an aptitude to learn new technologies. Have been recognized as an Exceptional contributor for the dedication and contribution to issue resolution and being a team player. TECHNICAL SKILLS Hyperion Tools: v11.1.2.4 (Planning, Essbase, FDMEE & HFM), v11.1.2.2 (Planning, Essbase & FDM), v11.1.2.1 (Planning, Essbase, FDM & HFM) Reporting Tools: Smart View, HFR, Tableau (Performed PoC) Languages: MDX, MaxL, Calculation Script, Report Script, Power Shell, Shell Script, Jython (Beginner) Databases: Oracle 11g, MS SQL Server 2008 Operating System: Linux, Windows 2012, 2008 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Parsippany, NJ Sr. Engineer Oracle EPM Admin & Development Responsibilities: Held a lead role in upgrade of Planning, Essbase and HFM from v11.1.2.1 to v11.1.2.4. Performed in-place upgrade for the purpose of POC and demonstrated the product to business users. Have been a functional lead for in house projects and application enhancements. Created Planning application and enhanced existing planning application to meet new Revenue Recognition guidelines - Fee Amortization. Added functionality to planning application to calculate Waterfall model for receivables. Developed new functionality within planning application for currency conversion using various rates. Developed new functionality for same store view of rooms for various scenarios and periods. Created business rules using XWrite to move data between planning applications. Built FDMEE application, Locations, Import formats, Dataload rules, mapping etc for new cash flow application integration. Built FDMEE application to extract data from HFM and automated the data file move between environments. Built email functionality using Powershell for overnight backup jobs and data loads and FDMEE data loads. Created HFM applications using CopyApp utility and Workspace, refreshed them between environments. Have been a key player in resolving issues on Essbase, Planning, FDMEE and HFM. Used Encryption to hide passwords used in Maxl and FDMEE scripts for compliance purpose. Automated security file extract for the convenience of the business users. Improved performances of the applications, optimized Calc scripts, business rules for better performance. Provided day to day support to business users during the financial close cycle. Worked with Internal Audit to ensure all systems are meeting compliance requirements. Responsible for evaluating critical patch updates, EPM patching for all the products as and when required and support Windows and Linux patching. Responsible for estimating the impact of infrastructure changes by other teams to Hyperion environment and ensure smooth functioning of the applications. Created ASO reporting application for the purpose of POC for business users. Held responsibility for monthly release and communications to business users. Environment: Planning 11.1.2.4, Essbase v11.1.2.4, FDMEE v11.1.2.4, HFM v11.1.2.4, Smart View 11.1.2.5.500 , 620, MAXL, PowerShell, Jython (Beginner). Confidential, Atlanta, GA Hyperion Developer & Platform Support Responsibilities: Upgraded assigned Essbase and Planning applications from version 9.3.3 to 11.1.2.2 Provided platform support such as patch installation and have successfully applied and tested patches .106 and .500 in version 11.1.2.2 on Windows and Linux servers. Have worked with operation team to investigate and resolve issues. Worked with Oracle support team on various tickets to resolve issues on the platform. Worked on performance improvement of the applications. Have worked on SmartView crash issues and ran a pilot program to test the solution. The same was pushed to end users with the help of SCCM. Currently involved in the development of planning application for profitability analysis using SCRUM methodology. Engaged in using tools such as FDM for loading data into the application. Have created import formats, location, mappings and import scripts in FDM and involved in data validation process. Have interacted with business users and built application and dimensions forms and business rules. Environment: Planning 11.1.2.2, Workspace, Shared Services, FDM 11.1.2.2, Linux, MAXL, Smart View 11.1.2.5.400 Confidential, Parsippany, NJ Hyperion Developer & Support Responsibilities: Held responsibility for the production support, enhancements and technical support for end users. Maintained BSO and ASO applications, security filters and automation scripts, overnight jobs etc. Developed and modified Calc scripts, reports scripts, member formula, security filters and outlines. Involved in upgraded of Essbase applications from version 11.1.1.3 to version 11.1.2.1 and migration the application artifacts to new platform. Developed Essbase ASO application for resort reservation forecasting and pacing. Maintained and modified security filters which could be toggled to open and close mode monthly closing cycle. Maintained on demand script to end users to physically move data from source BSO cube to reporting ASO cube which can be run by the end users on need basis. Monitored overnight activities including backup, defragmentation, data load from RDBMS, partial data transfer from BSO to ASO and hourly aggregations. Developed UAT test scripts, design documents and end user training documents. Supported end users during month end, quarter closing and year end closing. Optimized BSO cubes, used settings such as custom setting type of compression, data cache, calculator cache settings, and allocation of dense/spare configuration relating to hourglass model to have optimum database block size. Optimized databases based on business needs and user interaction, to improve Calc script run times and retrieval times. This includes optimizing outlines, dimension orders, member storage type, etc. Involved and interacted regularly with the finance, IT, business users and application administrators. Key involvement in fixing issues, developing Calc Scripts, MaxL scripts, MDX queries. Worked extensively on data loads, load rules, text lists, attributes and UDAs. Have worked with Oracle support team on various tickets related to production issues. Technical support for existing cubes, problem identification, resolution and documentation. Supported patching activities and performed regression testing of the applications after patching. Supported end users during application UAT and post go live. Performed quarterly Security audit for SOX compliance. Environment: Essbase 11.1.2.1, 11.1.1.3, Workspace 11.1.2.1, Shared Services 11.1.2.1, UNIX, MAXL, MDX, Excel Add-In. Confidential Hyperion Developer/Support Responsibilities: Joined the Hyperion team as a new member and involved in development of Essbase and Planning applications, upgrade and migration. Acted as a liaison between the technology and business areas of the organization. Involved in gathering requirements, functional specifications, designing documentations, testing strategies and developing a project plan. Interaction with finance and accounting customers who possessed various levels of business knowledge. Assess new Business needs, initiatives and translate them into detailed business requirements specifications. Worked closely with IT and finance teams to resolve issues, test, and implement financial systems. Involved in the upgrade of Essbase and Planning applications from version 9.3.1 to 11.1.1.3. Develop, derive, clarify and review functional specifications and User cases. Restructured and redesigned previous Essbase cubes. Maintenance of previous Essbase cubes. Developed Batch and Rules files to load data from financial system’s database to Essbase cube. Created and scheduled batch jobs for complete automation processes for nights and weekends application backup. Responsible for functions such as users/groups creation, security profiles and application access to different groups. Developed Calc scripts, Web forms and business rules. Developed Aggregate Storage Cubes (A.S.O). Optimized applications to bring down runtime and database size considerably. Involved in providing security authentication for the users of Hyperion Planning and maintaining workflow management process. Involved in unit test plans / system test plans, UAT plans, quality assurance test plans and test strategies. Environment:, Hyperion Essbase 9.3.1, 11.1.1.3, Hyperion Planning 11.1.1.3, Hyperion Financial Reports 11.1.1.3, Shared Services & Workspace 11.1.1.3, ESSCMD, MAXL, Excel Add-In, Windows NT/2000. Confidential  Assistant Team Lead Responsibilities: Involved in the development of smart card applications, payroll processing systems and loyalty systems. Conducted product demos, workshops and developed prototypes to meet the customer requirements. Enabled the sales team to successfully close sales by addressing the technical concerns of the customers. Participated in the internal product improvement and enhancement brain storms within in the organization. Involved in requirement gathering, writing technical proposal, product customization and implementation. Environment: VB .Net, MS SQL Server 2005, Windows Server 2003. Confidential Developer & Product Support Responsibilities: Joined as a VB developer and worked on an ERP product for small to midsized companies. Worked as a team member and involved in the estimation, design and development and customization of various modules. Prepared technical documents and conducted product trainings for customers and internal sales team. Visited client’s location to solve technical issues, was involved in the bug fixing and maintenance of the product. Environment: VB 6, MS SQL Server 2000, Windows 2000 Server. 