SUMMARY Over all 7 years of IT experience including 2+ years of RPA Process implementation using Blue Prism, uipath and Automation Anywhere. Hands on experience in developing BOTS using Blue Prism and managing robot’s workloads using Blue Prism Work Queues Used UiPath Orchestrator for deployment, monitoring, and management of UiPath Robots automation. Involved in Robotic Process Automation (RPA) from requirements gathering Solution,designing,coding,testing,debugging,documentation and implementation on different tools like Blue prism,UiPath. Involved in the centralized infrastructure for maintaining several robots across the organization. Designing and implementation of RPA tasks using BluePrism framework (Connectors, VBO, ACI, Process Studio, Control Room and System Manager) to update the Provider directory from excel, website data through screen scraping and using OCR (Optical Character Recognition) from printed material. Worked closely with solution architect to prepare Process Definition Document (PDD) and Solution Design Document (SDD) and educated SME’s to work with BOTS in production. Working on Queue Configurations, Monitoring, Internal Blue Prism Work Queue Actions, Exception handling, efficient use of stages, blocks, data types, session and environmental variables for processing of Business Process diagrams and Process flow charts using RPA tools. Good knowledge on UI Path Components, features and methods of automating the business processes. Experience in working in projects using Waterfall and Agile methodologies. Hands on experience in developing BOTS with UI Path. Prepared reports like Defect Statistics and Tracking for Weekly and daily status reports. Performed stress test for BOT scripts to prove scalability and stability of RPA code. Worked as a SPOC for RPA developers and acted as a bridge between developing and testing. Implemented Blue Prism User authentication by defining user roles, creating users and setting password policies. Expertise with Control Room Resource, Session Management, Blue Prism Calculation functions and debugging of Process Solutions. Experience in Agile, Waterfall Methodologies with clear understanding of Iterative and Evolutionary principles. Proficient in developing applications using Object Oriented (OOP’s) programming concepts. Implementing Users' s authentication by defining user roles, creating users and password policies in Blue prism. Hands - on experience in buildingBlueprism Object and Process studio for various business system robots. Working Business Object stages and Process flow chart inRPAtools. Hands-on experience on Exception handling and work flows. Strong knowledge on writing Functions, Views, Indexes and stored procedures in SQL database. Problem solving for the issues that arises in dailyBlue prism running and providing timely responses and solutions. Strong experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle with AnalysisDesign, Development, implementation, Integration, Testing, DebuggingProduction and Maintenance. Extensive experience in writing complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, FunctionsViews, Indexes and Joins on SQL Server, MySQL and Oracle. Ability to work independently and to manage several assignments simultaneously to meet deadlines. TECHNICAL SKILLS RPA TOOLS: Blue Prism V 5.0/4.2, Automation Anywhere.Uipath. .NET Technologies: ASP.Net, MVC 3/4/5/6, WCF, VB.NET, ADO.NET, Entity Framework and, Web Forms. Web Technologies: HTML4/5, XHTML, DHTML, XML,, HTTP, TCP/IP SOAP, CSS, Bootstrap, Web forms, Web Services Programming Languages: C#, Visual Basic, JavaScript, JQuery, C++ and C, PL/SQL. Databases: SQLServer 2012/2008/2005 , Oracle10g,11g,MSExcel,MSAccess 2007/2010,Sharepoint. Development Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2010/2012/2013/2015 , .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0 , Microsoft Expression Blend 3.0/2.0 and Dream Weaver. HTML, CSS, XSL, ASP, JavaScript, Json, WPF Reporting Tools: SQL Server Reporting Services, SQL Server Integration Service and MS Access reports. Tools: Telerik controls, Kendo controls,, SOAP UI Servers: IIS 6.0, IIS 5.0, TFS and Apache. Architectures: MVC1.0,MVC3.0, 3-Tire,N-Tire,Cleint-Server PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Providence, RI  RPA Developer Responsibilities: Involved in End to End development of Business Process using Robotic Process Automation. Having good knowledge on Blue prism object studio and process studio, have created process(Bots) for web based applications, including excel automation. Analyzing the process and design the Robotic Automation Solution as per the Standard. Have good knowledge of Blue Prism designs principle. Developed new processes/tasks/objects using core principles that are efficient, well structured, maintainable and easy to understand. Worked on Different type of Stages like Action, Calculation, Decision, Choice and Multi Calculations, Page and Data item. Experienced in Navigate for Launch the application. Experienced in exception handling using Exception, Recover, Resume stages. Experienced in Creating the Work Queues to improve the performance of Process. Used the MS Excel VBO, Utility collection Management efficiently, MAPIEx. Experienced in different application spying modes like Win32,Access,Region and Html modes Extensive working knowledge in developing BusinessObjects withAutomationAnywhere. Experienced in buildingAutomationAnywhereProcesses and Business Objects for various Business systems robots. Good knowledge about managing robot's workloadsusingAutomationAnywhereWork Queues. Hands on Experience in developing BOTS with Blue Prism,AutomationAnywhere. Working on Queue Configurations, Monitoring InternalAutomationAnywhereWork Queue Actions, Exception handling, efficient use of stages, blocks, data types, session and environmental variables for processing of Business Process diagrams and Process flow charts using RPA tools. Involved in process automation collaborations with business users globally to analyze business processes, recommend RPA based solutions for the processes, and develop robots using Automation Anywhere software. Performed tool evaluation and feasibility to help in selecting suitableAutomationtool for RPA implementation.Set up Jira dashboards and communicated testing status to stakeholders in Bug Scrub and Triage meetings. Created customized defect workflow as Jira Administrator, creating and managing Jira users. Used Delay and Wait commands with Blue Prism. Usingtool, the manual tasks are then automated routine tasks by business process. Used uipath Orchestrator for deployment, monitoring, and management ofuipathRobots automation activity. Automated text in PDF's using screen scraping to calculate the invoices and store them into a data table usinguipath Working knowledge onuipathRPA studio concepts like debugging a work flow, managing the packages, creating variables, arguments, control flows Hands on experience in managing robot's workloads using/ uipath Work queues.Interacting with windows application and created object and interacted all the objects in process studio and created work queues and running processes. Used String Operation to Compare and eliminate duplicates from the data. Problem solving issues that arise in day to day running of Blue Prism processes and providing timely responses and solutions as required. Used Blue Prism's Credential Manager for maintaining, securing and retrieving the user credentials. Defined RPA automation strategy for process involving mainframes, web service calls and web applications implemented. Prepared Process Design Document (PDD) and Solution Design Document (SDD) for the workflows. Conducted feasibility check for the given business model by the client. Created database connections to fetch the data and automated the process to arrange data with Blue Prism. Well Versed with Object Studio, Control Room, and Release BP Files. Experience on spying elements on mainframe application while automating a custodian form. Provided End to End to solution for Business process using Robotic Process Automation. Reading the data from the spreadsheet into the blue prism. Worked on to get the Command output (Including Error Messages) through the Blue Prism. Worked on getting all the remote machines errors and information to the main system through the Blue Prism. Environment: RPA, Blue Prism V5.0, V4.2, .NET, VBA, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SQL Server, Visual Studio. Confidential, Jersy city, Newjersy RPA Developer Responsibilities: Experience with working on robotic automation tools like Blue prism Experience in identifying the automatable processes for doing process assessments and robotic factor calculation. Experience in preparing and presenting business case for automatable processes, solution designing, and developing automation tasks for the identified processes. . Experience in designing User Interface using AJAX, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript and other Third Party Controls (Telerik Controls) to enhance the performancelooks and features of the website. Experience in various domains like Banking, Finance and Insurance. Experienced in using Design Patterns, Microsoft Patterns and Practices. Hands on experience on Winforms to develop desktop applications like whether forecasting, stopwatch. Analyses the feasibility of existing process suitable for automation. Implemented new reporting techniques and facilitated the presentations to the clients. Worked on Integrating applications like (Web, Services, Mainframe, MS Office, GUIOutlook etc.) using workflow, automation tools (Blue Prism) Managed robot's workloads usingBlue Prism Work Queues. Used in various actions like Conditions and Loops, User prompts, Error Logging and commands like Object Cloning, OCR, Key Strokes etc., for coding the automation process. Created objects by Interacting with windows application and interacted all the bjects in process studio to create work queues and run processes. Developed process automation for different Business Applications that are Windows based, Browser based, Java and Mainframe. Authenticated users by creating users defining roles and setting password policies. Experience in usingBlue Prism Credential Manager for maintaining, securing and retrieving the user credentials. Experienced in building Blue Prism Processes and Business Objects for various business systems. Worked with mainframe, windows base application and surface automation. Hands on experience in developing BOTS usingBlue Prism and managing robot's workloads usingBlue Prism Work Queues. Exposure toBlue Prism, Single Sign-on implementation using Microsoft Active Directory. Experienced in dealing with robot's workloads utilizing Blue Prism Work Queues Worked with the Business Analysts in recognizing and characterizing the prerequisites Develop robots utilizing Automation Anywhere. Defined RPA mechanization methodology for process including centralized computers, web benefit calls and web applications executed Coded mechanization anyplace assignments and performed unit testing and coordination testing Experience in arranging and sending the computerization arrangement into test and live situations Connecting with customers and associated with business process walkthrough. Involved in Design and computerizing the procedures utilizing Automation Anywhere instrument. Communicating with Offshore advancement group and helping them being developed exercises. Environment: RPA, Blue Prism V5.0, V4.2, .NET, VBA, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SQL Server, Visual Studio. Confidential, Cincinnati, Ohio  .Net Developer  Responsibilities: Involved in requirement analysis, designing and development. Used AGILES methodology to implement the application. Designed Class, Use Case, Sequence diagrams using MS Visio. Provided guidance on Site core development to other developers. Involved in development of MVC 4.0/5.0 patterns for client server interaction. Improved code reusing and reduced class coupling through Dependency Injection design pattern. Used Razor view and ASPX(c#) as a view engine to make the code simple, enable to mix and match view templates written using multiple view engines in the application. Created designs in partial views that are commonly used throughout the application. Developed MVC application by using Layouts to have consistent look of and to add styles to each page in application. Used front end web development tools like Ajax, CSS, JavaScript, DHTML, and jQuery. Involved in developing WCF Web Service using SOAP/HTTP to communicate with legacy systems. Implemented methods through controllers in MVC to handle user inputs and responses. Implemented AJAX and used Ajax Controls toolkit to improve performance, responsiveness, interactivity and features of application. Configured security features for the application using Form Based Authentication and Role Based Authorization using C# and ASP.NET. Created rich, easy-to-use and highly interactive UI using ASP.NET, AJAX controls HTML-5, CSS, and master pages. Implemented a separate query processing using LINQ and created data entry web applications, with LINQ to SQLCRUD operations. Consumed XML Web Services using C#. Created Stored Procedures, Functions, Views and Triggers in MS-SQL database using T-SQL for regulate and maintain complex data. Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for Version Control Designed and Developed reports using SSRS. Reports were developed against a variety of data sources which included SSRS. Used SSIS to manipulate data to integrate the SQL Server database into larger processes. Developed business logic including Code-behind files and Classes in N-tier. Used TFS for bug tracking and bug fixing. Developed Entity Framework to access a relational database from the application. Involved in Unit and Functional testing and fixing the issues occurred in the testing process. Involved in deploying the application on the IIS server. Used LINQ to SQL to manipulate and fetch the data from database. Generated reports using SSRS. Performed database operations on SQL Server 2008 to create and maintain accounts information by creating SQL queries, stored procedures, functions. Environment: MVC 3.0/4.0, Razor Views, Partial Views, Layouts, C#, ADO.net, Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server 2008 R2, SSRS, Web Services, WCF, XAML, IIS 7.0/7.5, Java Script, JQuery, ENTITY Frame Work, LINQ to SQL, XML, AJAX, HTML5, CSS, TFS, NUnit 2.5. Confidential .Net Developer Responsibilities: Developing and maintaining all sites upon business requirements including enhancements on agile methodology. Involved in gathering requirements from business analyst. Co-ordinate with team lead for better understanding of functional requirements, analyze and Design the business requirements to document and implement. Used ASP.Net 4.0 with C# language to develop the applications. Developed XML Web Services using C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, SOAP, XML, XSLT, WSDL, REST and UDDI for exposing the functionalities of the enterprise business components at the Business Layer. Used XML to transport and store data. Involved in complete SDLC, used AGILE methodologies to implement new features in incremental way. Designed and developed WebForms using ASP.NET, C#.NET and Visual Studio. Involved in preparation of cascade style sheet (CSS3) files. Writing Oracle Stored Procedures, SQL scripts and calling them by using Perl shell and Korn shell scripts. Wrote the stored procedure to be used in PowerBuilder based software. Wrote a test suite in WinForms, with C# for backend. Involved in Coded UI scripting. Used Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) for communicating with other application and components. Later helped migrate from SOA to RESTful services using ASP.NET Web API. Responsible for designing the ASP.NET application authentication using .NET Framework, Model View Controller MVC and IIS security model. Created rich, easy-to-use and highly interactive UI using ASP.NET, AJAX controls, HTML, CSS, and master pages. Designed and developed several Windows forms using VB.NET. Used Linq to Sql to get the data from database Used JavaScript extensively for client-side validations. Implemented unit testing in application. Attending daily scrum meetings to update/report work status with team and Project Manager. Created and consumed the WCF services for Service Oriented applications. The application was developed using the Model View Control (MVC) architecture that gives a clear separation of representation of information from the user's interaction with it. Involved in Analysis, Design, Programming, Testing, Bug fixing. Used ADO.Net to access the SQL Server 2005 database Develop Business Layer using Interface and Transaction Implementation. Generate report from Data Grid and export into MS Excel and save the file in PDF Format. Developed .Net based class library using C# Modified the app.config file to obtain the desired setting. Designed Test cases, Test data and Bug fixing. VSS is used for source code management. Environment: ASP. Net 4.0, Visual studio 2010, C#.Net, WCF, JavaScript, SqlServer2008 Confidential .NET Developer  Responsibilities: Interacting with the client for requirements, discussing the feasibility of requirements, design of the layout of web pages, Architecture and participating in the development. Involved in designing, trading and documentation of application flows and developed functional diagrams using Visio. Design & Develop Presentation Layer User Interface screens using Web Forms and used CSS3 to give HTML5 documents an attractive and consistent appearance. Used Custom Validations, Validation Controls and performed validations both on client side and server side. Client side validation was handled using JavaScript and ASP.NETcontrols. Developed the middle tier business logic components using .netframework that interact with the database and processes all the data for the presentation layer to display and also involved in various phases of database design like Logical and Physical layers. Worked extensively on designing database tables, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers using SQL Server 2012/2008. Provided Session Management and View State to preserve the state of session variables. Involved in Supporting and Troubleshoot Data conversion activities throughout the phases of development. Handled Run Time & Design Time Errors by implementing appropriate Error Handlers in C# and Tracing. Involve in Creating Web Services(XML standard) From Scratch. Involved in unit testing and integration testing of the application. Used Team Foundation Server as versioning tool and the IDE made use of for coding purposes is MS Visual studio 2012/2010. Expertise in debugging Microsoft SQL Server 2008, including table design, stored procedure, SQL and trigger development. Environment: ASP.NET, C#, Vb.Net, NetFramework4.0, ADO.NET, OOPS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jquery,, Visual Studio 2012/2010, CODED UI, WPF, UML, NUnit, SQL Server 2012/2008. 