SUMMARY 6+ years of IT industry experience encompassing a wide range of skill set, roles and industry verticals. Strong knowledge & understanding of industry standard methodologies including Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), and Project Life Cycle. Expertise in Design and Development of large - scale Business Process Management (BPM) and Business Rules Engines (BRE) applications using Pega Systems. Adept in developing PRPC High Level Class structures, Work Flows, Service rules and Business Process Management using PRPC. Expertise in PRPC flows, interpretation of flow shapes and interpretation of complex flow shapes for business scenarios, properties, activities and activity step methods. Expertise in implementing various PRPC BRE components like Decision Tables, Decision Trees, Declarative Expressions, Indexes etc. Expertise in using PRPC construction, testing and debugging tools such as Tracer, Utility, Clipboard & Rules Inspector. Made extensive use of Connectors and Services in PRPC to integrate with the external systems. Prepared Role Based Access group for the Pega Workflow team. Used new PRPC's features like Data pages to auto populate the external database details, Data transform and many others new features. Experience in implementing Agents and Case Management. Experience in troubleshooting & performance tuning of PRPC applications utilizing Clipboard, Tracer and Performance Analyzer (PAL) for performance analysis and Preflight to check application Guardrails Compliance, Live UI, Log Analysis/Log Analyzer. Well Versed with Flow Actions, Agents, SLA. Experience in creating Report Definitions, List View and Summary View reports in Pega. Worked with various RDBMS technologies like Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, and MS-SQL. Expertise in Data import and exports from Production environment and in Client test environments. Working as a SME to co-ordinate the team assignments and providing the technical guidance for team members. Worked on delivery and deployment plans to different regions QA/UAT/Production. Good in interacting with various stakeholders and conducted questionnaires, meetings, scenarios descriptions, walkthroughs for document Review. Strong and cohesive team player capable of delivering results through tight deadline and quality pressures, self-motivated, quick learner. TECHNICAL SKILLS BPM Technologies: PRPC 7.x Programming Languages: Java, SQL, PL/SQL, Java Script Agile Project Tools: Rally, JIRA IDE’s/Development tools: Eclipse 3.0, MyEclipse, NetBeans,Visual Studio Operating Systems: Windows, Unix, Linux Protocols: HTTP, TCP/IP, SOAP, SMTP RDBMS: My Sql, MS SQL Server, Oracle, DB2 Requirement and Defect tracking Tools: JIRA, HP quality center, Rally Dev, SQL Developer Build and Version control tools: SVN, Git PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Charlotte, NC Pega Developer/Architect Responsibilities: Worked on developing claims entitlement and fulfillment engines, which provide generic work flows to accommodate functionality of multiple clients in one place. Involved in end to end development of an access group which provides a common class structure and functionality to support multiple connect-http requests. Extensively worked on HTTP and SOAP integrations with the client’s external data and inventory services and created error handling flows to support them. Created Email Listeners to automate updating the data in the Application by monitoring and processing the inbound emails. Worked on Declare-Index Rules, Declare Trigger Rules to implement required functionalities. Created and modified activities and data transform to implement business logic. Leveraged out of the box user interfaces to create new Pega 7 portals, tabbed layouts for interactions. Designed and customized the User Interface to display the Interaction driver and Interaction homes screens. Created skin rules to provide a uniform style and presentation to all the applications and successfully replacing all the existing custom styles with out of the box features. Developed new Report-Definitions to display work queues with advanced filtering. Updated all the existing fixed layouts to dynamic, smart and repeating layouts to enable dynamic web and mobile interfaces. Implemented the custom tab switching functionality, handling the issues with CPM-portal-recent using custom java script. Created Agents in Pega to run background processes to trigger communications, route work objects. Environment: Pega Rules Process Commander v7.3, HTML, HTTP, SOAP, XML, CSS, Java Script Confidential - Charlotte, NC Lead Pega Developer Responsibilities: Designed and implemented the Class structure hierarchy. Involved in designing, building and validating User Interfaces using Sections, Harnesses, and custom HTML Rules in PRPC. Designed, developed and deployed workflows in PRPC using MS Visio and design of flow diagrams. Designed and Developed activities to implement complex business logic. Implemented various PRPC components like Decision tables, Decision Maps, Declarative expressions, Constraints, and Indexes etc. Design and development of Harness rules, Layout and Sections. Developed and Integrated SLA (Service level Agreements) in the workflow for setting goals related to work processing. Developed various Integration rules such as File-Listeners for processing the Data provided by various LOB’s(Line of Business) and Clients. Implemented declarative processing for to make complex calculations. Creation of queries using Rule-Connect-SQL for selecting, inserting and updating data from database. Integration with External systems by using SOAP Services and connectors. Parsed the string values against the Parse-XML rule to map values against properties in the clipboard. Developed Rule-Declare-Trigger rules to monitor PRPC DB commit and deletes. Created unit test plans and test cases for user modules. Involved in Design and Technical Documentation. Environment: Pega Rules Process Commander v7.1, HTML, SOAP, XML, CSS, Java Script Confidential, Nashville, TN PEGA Developer Responsibilities: Onboarded various clients like Sprint, Cricket, Tracfone, Telus and Koodo on to the Compass application, so that CSR would be able to identify and work on various types of Holds triggered by the system for the respective clients Created Data pages and activities to develop the business requirements in an efficient manner Tested and debugged using Tracer and Live UI and performed end to end Integration testing of the application Participated in Code Review and Quality Assurance Worked on configuring privileges for the different roles to restrict and access for CSR Agents accordingly as per Business requirements Worked on various UI Rules like sections, Layouts, Skin Rules etc., to display the required data related to Holds Developed stored procedures, triggers, functions and database tables in Oracle database Thoroughly worked on reporting wizard, list view, summary view, Object-Methods and activities Knowledge sharing sessions with other Developments team to share & gain the project knowledge Environment: Pega Rules Process Commander v7.1, HTML, HTTP, SOAP, XML,CSS, Java Script, WinSCP, Putty Confidential - Nashville, TN Pega Developer Responsibilities: Converted the Business Requirements in to Technical implementation Designed and implemented the Class structure hierarchy. Involved in designing, building and validating User Interfaces using Sections, Harnesses, and custom HTML Rules in PRPC. Designed, developed and deployed workflows in PRPC. Designed and Developed activities to implement complex business logic. Implemented various PRPC components like Decision tables, Decision Maps, Declarative expressions, Constraints, and Indexes etc. Developed and Integrated SLA (Service level Agreements) in the workflow for setting goals related to work processing. Developed various Integration rules such as File-Listeners for processing the Data provided by various LOB’s and Clients Designed UI using Rule-HTML-Harness, Rule-HTML-Section rules Implemented declarative processing for to make complex calculations. Creation of queries using Rule-Connect-SQL for selecting, inserting and updating data from database Integration with External systems by using SOAP Services and connectors Parsed the string values against the Parse-XML rule to map values against properties in the clipboard. Developed Rule-Declare-Trigger rules to monitor PRPC DB commit and deletes. Created unit test plans and test cases for user modules. Environment: Pega Rules Process Commander v7.1, HTML, HTTP, SOAP, XML, CSS, Java Script, WinScp, Putty 