SUMMARY Over 7+ years of experience in Salesforce.com Development and Administration involved in implementation, administration, development, integration with other systems and cloud applications and including analysis, modeling, design, coding and testing in various business domains. Experience in analyzing and assessing requirements and documenting for Salesforce.com implementations. Expertise at Administrative tasks such as User management, creating Profiles, Roles and Permission Sets, Workflow, Tasks and Events, Email notification and templates, Reports and Dashboards. Hands on experience in SFDC Development using the APEX classes, Apex Batches, Triggers, Components, Reports, Force.com IDE, Eclipse with SOQL, SOSL and Force.com plug - in. Integrated Salesforce with external systems using both inbound and outbound using SOAP & REST apex web service classes. Worked with MVC (Model View Controller) design pattern and implemented in Salesforce customizations using subjects, Apex controller classes and Visualforce pages. Good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile with Expertise in requirement gathering, Analysis, Designing, Development and Testing. Good experience in writing SOQL, SOSL, Aggregate, Relationship queries in apex classes, triggers and batch classes and customized queries to avoid governor limits. Expertise in Apttus - CPQ and CLM Managed Packages. Expertise in the implementation using Apex Language, Visualforce pages, Classes, Triggers, Controllers, Web Services, Tabs, Components, Custom Objects, S-Controls, Reports, Dashboards and Analytical Snapshots. Good at Lighting Components and adding them to Visualforce pages and Lighting experience page layouts. Developed and worked on different Salesforce.com environments such as Sandbox and Production Environments. Effective employment of Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard and Data Manipulation Language for Data Migration and Management in bulk. Experience with Workflow Issues, restart Workflows, reset data fields, test and fix the Validation rules. Worked on Apttus CPQ configuration and integration. Written apex batch, schedule classes by implementing Batch able and Schedulable interfaces for Processing large data sets in scheduled intervals. Experience in web technologies including HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery. Experience in mobile Development by using web technologies including JQuery, AngularJS. TECHNICAL SKILLS Salesforce Technologies: SalesForce.com, Force.com, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages/ Components, S-Control, Apex Web Services, Partner WSDL & Enterprise WSDL, lightning components, Work Flow and Approvals, Dashboard, Analytic Snapshots Custom Integration: Outbound Messages, Workflow & Approvals, Field updates, Reports, Custom Objects Custom settings, Custom labels and Tabs, Email Services, Role Hierarchy, Dashboards, Security Controls, AppExchange Package & Custom Application and Sandbox data loading. Force.com tools: Apex Data loader, Force.com Apex Explorer, AJAX tool kit, Force.com Migration Tool, Force.com Excel connector and Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Programming Languages: C, C++, .NET, C#, Java, APEX, SQL, TSQL Reporting Tools: SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) 2008/2012, Crystal Reports Database: SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), SQL Server Business Intelligence Studio(BIDS), Enterprise Manager, SQL Profiler, Query Analyzer,IDE Eclipse, My Eclipse and Force.com Eclipse IDE plug-in, Visual Studio.Net 2008/2012 ETL Tools: SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) 2008/2012, DTS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Salesforce Developer/Admin Confidential, FL Responsibilities: Implemented SFDC CRM to deliver various reports in departments of Sales, Administration and Marketing etc. Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements. Created custom objects, Visualforce pages, triggers, validation rules to help track internal help desk cases, customize campaign budgeting and lead qualification. Created custom controllers implementing complex code for retrieval from Salesforce to VF pages. Wrote SOQL and SOSL statements within custom controllers, extensions and triggers. Customizing the flex UI to show real time data consuming Salesforce API. Used SalesForce.com Ajax Toolkit to make asynchronous calls to the SFDC data store for optimizing data retrieval speeds. Created mash-ups to include data from many external end-points such as including financial information from 3rd parties in the customer's profile (Accounts) using WSDL and XML Stream Reader. Created various summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and setup report folders to authenticate users based on their profiles with permissions. Implemented complex approval processes to ensure proper authorization in the high-stakes environment of capital management. Managed users, hierarchical roles, profiles, security controls and territory management. Created and deployed complex workflow rules according to the business requirements. Developed complex reports and dashboards using HTML, PDF, Apex, Visualforce page and mail merge. Environment: Eclipse IDE, Salesforce.com, Force.com Sandbox, S-Controls, Import Wizard, Apex, XML, JavaScript, Web Services API, Controllers, Sharing Rules, Visualforce Pages, Workflows, Email Updates. Salesforce Developer Confidential, NC Responsibilities: Interacted with Business users for requirements gathering, analysis and development. Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard Objects including Accounts, Contacts, Reports, Dashboards, Events and Tasks. Agile Development Methodology was followed for the implementation Developed various Apex classes, Controller classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application. Developed custom Business logic using Apex Classes, Visual force pages and Lightning components. Developed Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for creating effects in Visual force pages. Created Workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates. Implemented Pick lists, Dependent Pick lists, lookups, Master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects. Extensive experience on S controls, Visualforce pages and Page layouts according to the Business requirements Installed the Call Center Applications and Allowed the end users to maintain a track history of customers complaints Involved in Integrating Big Machines-CPQ using SOAP API. Developed solutions on the Force.com platform, strong understanding of Apttus Contract Lifecycle Management (CLM) and Apttus Configure Price Quote (CPQ). Integrated Salesforce with external Master data using SOAP and REST API Developed several Custom Reports & Dashboards to better assist managers and report folder to provide report accessibility to appropriate personnel. Environment: Saleforce.com CRM, Force.com platform, Apex Classes, Lightning, Chatter, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, Service Cloud Console, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Security Controls, SOAP, REST, Eclipse IDE, WSDL, Windows. Sales force Developer / Admin Confidential Responsibilities: Analyzed requirements and developed detailed design of Salesforce integration. Created custom field and field dependencies on standard objects like Cases and Solutions. Experienced with integration of Salesforce Knowledge Module application. Created pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups fields, junction objects, master detail relationships, validation rules and formula fields. Developed Apex classes and Apex Triggers on Force.com platform to customize application according to functional needs. Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects. Developed workflow rules and time triggered workflows for various business requirements. Used field level security, profiles and audit trail setup to ensure that protected data is only with authorized users. Designed and Implemented the Page layouts and Custom tabs to suit the needs of the application. Worked on Salesforce Communities and created VF pages for Communities. Implemented escalation rules, automatic case generation and their escalation to call center representative, and generated email alerts for quick issue resolution. Developed Custom Reports and Dashboards as per given requirements. Implemented scheduling dashboards and run time dashboards. Created test scenarios on Sandbox environment and migrated code to deployment instance after testing. Environment: Salesforce.Com API, Apex Data Loader, Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, AppExchange, Apex Language, VisualForce, Triggers, Metadata API, SOQL, SOSL, Security Controls, Agile, HP MQC, Monarch, Snapshot Sales force Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Created Custom objects to build new application functionality in the Salesforce.com. Dealt with enhancing and supporting the application. Accounts, Opportunities, Contacts, Activities, Leads, Campaigns tracking and management used Standard Salesforce Sales Cloud features. Provided daily user support in managing users, creating and maintaining custom objects and fields, handling bulk data migration, maintenance of page layouts, and installation and support of App Exchange applications like Exact Target and Market Developed Apex classes, Test classes and wrote Visualforce Pages using Java, HTML. Bulk data update, creation and cleanup activities. Performed Migration of code in Sandbox and Production with Eclipse IDE. Developed Visualforce page using the extension controller according to the clients' requirement Developed Apex Classes & Triggers to implement the business logic as per the requirements Developed SOQL and SOSL queries to get data from different related objects. Worked in agile systems. Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Component and Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Apex Triggers, Web Services, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, MS Excel, Salesforce Reports and Dashboards Sales force Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Involved in creating Test Plan and written Test Cases based on Use Cases and Business Requirements of the web-based application in agile development environment. Automated Test Cases using Selenium, Eclipse. Working in sprints (2 weeks) to complete testing the modules for each sprint. Used TestNG frameworks extensively to create data driven test suites Perform Functional Testing and Regression Testing using Selenium WebDriver Bitbucket provides Git and mercurial code management for professional teams. It's a web-bases hosting service used for source code and development projects. Performed Regression testing on new builds, every modification in the application using Selenium RC. Performed UAT in mobile application of the system Performed back-end testing using SQL queries to validate the data in the back-end SQL Server. Used HP Quality Center for viewing and analyzing test results and also for defect tracking and reporting which occurred during execution of test scripts. Wrote SQL queries for validating the data mapping and data integrity. Performed load test using LoadRunner- Vugen 12.53, Used Performance Center for load tests. Perf-Mon and Wily Introscope is used for monitoring the load tests and identifying the bottlenecks. Environment: LoadRunner 12.53, Performance Center 12.53, Appium, Selenium Web driver, Wily Introscope, Oracle 10g, Putty, Quality Center.