SUMMARY Over 8+ years of experience with proven record as a Business Analyst in various domains such as Banking, Finance, Healthcare, Pharma, Retail, E - Commerce, Manufacturing, Oil and Gas . Strong analytical and logical skills combined with experience in various cycles of software development including development, testing, implementation and maintenance of applications. Excellent knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile (SCRUM, KANBAN, SAFe), Waterfall, Iterative Software Development Life Cycle Process (RUP), CMM (Capability Maturity Models) and Rational Tools used during various phases of RUP. Extensive experience of generating Business Requirements documents, Use Case Specifications, Project Charter, Project Plan, Test Plans, Test Cases, Test Scenarios, Regular Reports with status and metrics. In dept knowledge in Business Analysis, Data Analysis, Gap Analysis, SWOT, cause and effect, Root cause, cost benefit analysis, feasibility, Impact/Risk analysis, Requirement Traceability and Business Modeling. Excellent in analyzing Business process and creating Use-cases, various UML diagrams like Use case diagram, Swimlane diagrams, Flow charts, sequence Diagram, Activity diagram, E-R diagrams, Data flow diagram (DFD’s) and Mock ups using MS-Visio, Balsamiq. Facilitated all scrum ceremonies like Product backlog refinement, Sprint planning meeting, Daily scrum, Sprint review, Sprint retrospective. Maintained all Scrum artifacts such as Impediment lists, Sprint Burn-up, Burn-down charts, Release burn-down and burn-up charts. Helped product owner with prioritization using techniques like MoSCoW model, KANO model Coached the team using various Estimation techniques like Planning poker, T-shirt sizing and Fist of Five. Comprehensive understanding of Web-Services like REST and SOAP using XML, WSDL and UDDI using internet protocol suite like HTTP under Three-Tier Architecture and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). Experience with data analytics, data visualization and reporting using SQL Queries, MS Excel (Lookup, Macros, Pivot Tables, etc.), PowerBI and Tableau. Concrete understanding about Supply chain management, Inventory control, Quality management, Risk management, Order management, ERP System (People Soft, SAP), P2P, P2O, Warehouse Management, IBM TRIRIGA, Sales, General ledger concepts. Excellent understanding of Pharma R&D, regulatory and Operations along with Enterprise level IT-ERP and Business Intelligence project implementations. Experience in Process Documentation, Analysis and Implementation in 835, 837, 834, 270/271, 276/277, 999/TA1 (X12 Standards) processes of Medical Claims Industry with HIPPA compliance. In dept knowledge of Databases, Data ware housing, Data Marts, Data Integration, Star/Snowflake schema, OLAP & OLTP operations viz. Slice, Dice, Pivot, Roll-up, and Drill-down. Extensively interacted with designers and developers to ensure functional implementation of business requirements, Cloud based Devops and Identity Access Management (IAM), Jenkins requirements. Facilitated the Quality Assurance Team in executing Test Plans & Test Case scenarios, Test Logs, Test Objectives. Knowledge of various Testing Methods such as Black box testing, Functional Testing, Regression testing, Performance Testing, Load/Stress Testing, Smoke testing, Integration testing, manual testing as well as UAT. Excellent project management skills, communication and customer service skills, organizational skills, self-motivated and organized, excellent written, verbal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Methodologies: Scrum, Kanban, SAFe, Hybrid, Waterfall Reporting Tools: Tableau, Crystal Reports, Power BI, SSRS Modeling Tools: MS Visio, Balsamiq, Rational Rose, Lucid Charts, Draw.io, Axure RP Databases: Oracle 11g, SQL, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server2016/17, IBM DB2, Toad, MYSQL Data warehouse: Data Marts, OLTP, OLAP, ROLAP, MOLAP, HOLAP, Slicing/dicing, Drill Down/Roll Up, Pivot, Multidimensional Analysis Dev. Environments / Protocols: Java, .NET, C++, SOA, JavaScript, ReactJS, NodeJS, HTTPS, SSL, SMTP Documentation Tools: MS Office Suite, SharePoint 2012/2013, Rational Requisite Pro Web Technologies: XML, JSON, HTML, XSD, AJAX, SOAP, RESTful Web Services/API, Kafka Project management tools: JIRA, MS SharePoint, HP-ALM, Confluence, TFS, Rally Testing tools: HP ALM, Soap UI, Postman, Jenkins, Selenium, Swagger PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Tampa, Florida Scrum Master/ Business Analyst RESPONSIBILITIES: Performed requirements gathering using both formal and informal sessions through interviews, questionnaire, video conferencing, brainstorming, JAD sessions and conference calls. Assisted Project Management in developing Scope/ Vision Documentation and Project Plan, tracking project process. Utilized UML modeling techniques (business process, data) to discover & clarify the functional and data Requirement and developed different UML diagrams like use cases, workflow or process diagrams, mockup/prototype to provide better understanding and validation of the product during the design phase. Improved quality of subsequent iterations/sprints by holding retrospective meetings and incorporating lessons learned at team and release levels, suggested process changes and feedback from previous iterations Facilitated Scrum events including Backlog refinement, Sprint Planning, Stand up meeting, Sprint Review and Sprint Retrospective sessions. Worked with the technical team in the development of new risk management computation system in compliance with the Basel II accord. Scoping and designing the new Compliance system including Sanctions, and KYC processes. Educated and reinforced scrum methodology and agile framework to team members and stakeholders. Involved in writing user stories by conducting a story writing session with the product owner and then the acceptance criteria for the PSPI (Potentially Shippable Product Increment) Drafted and updated the sprint burn down charts, tracked the velocity and the sprint progress. Worked closely with Project Owner in Backlog Grooming and continuous delivery of features and maintained Burn Down Chart and Team Velocity using Jira. Helped to prioritize user stories using MOSCOW and Planning Poker techniques. Facilitated Daily Defect Triage calls between the development team and QA team for resolving issues. Conducted root cause analysis and coordinated with Production support team with a prime responsibility in managing infrastructure to user service requests with the help of service now in resolving production issues. Defined and suggested SOAP, XML based web services and application programming interfaces (API’s) based on languages such as JAVA which would be compatible. The Application based on the Various Rules and Compliance such as RESPA (Section 6), HUD (Section 10), FHA, HMDA, TILA. ENVIRONMENT: Hybrid, SQL, SOAP UI, MS-Visio, XML, MS-EXCEL, Tableau, Microsoft Office Suite 2012, MS Visio 2012, MS Project 2012, Windows XP, EXT.js 6.0, SQL Server 2012, Postman, SOA, JIRA, Confluence, C#, ASP.Net, Balsamic, HP QC v11.0 Confidential, Chicago, Illinois Business Data Analyst RESPONSIBILITIES: Elicitation of Functional/Non-Functional requirements and Conducting the Functional requirements/User requirement specification reviews and walkthroughs with developers, SME’s and stakeholders. Worked closely with end-users and stakeholders to develop a detailed understanding of the requirements and prepared comprehensive set of documents to define the specifications and business value of the systems. Created Data Warehouse Architecture Mockups and Wireframes using MS Visio for Business stakeholders. Designed the Data Warehousing ETL procedures for extracting the data from all source systems to the Confidential . Worked with development team and designed and developed the logical and physical data models to support the Data Marts and the Data Warehouse. Worked with subject matter experts and project team to identify, define, collate, document and communicate the data migration requirements. Prepared data migration plans including migration risk, milestones, quality and business sign-off details. Worked on HIPAA claim master integrated with the Microsoft SQL server utility to process the data from the data ware house. Analyzed HIPAA 5010 related to 837(Claim),835(Payment & Remittance), 270, 271(Eligibility Enquiry response), 275 (Patient info),276 and 277(Claim Status Enquiry & Response) transactions and performed Gap analysis to improve and implement enterprise solutions to ensure compliance. Experienced in advanced analytics utilizing healthcare payor data (health insurance/claims/Medicare). Facilitated SAP data validation between the source system (ECC) and the data reporting tool (Business Objects Data Services Designer). Assisted with the implementation and day-to-day administration of the HIPAA privacy compliance program. Good Understanding of clinical practice management, medical and laboratory billing and insurance claim with processing with process flow diagrams. Performed Data Profiling of the current state of data in the Data Warehouse by doing Data Analysis using SQL Queries and Microsoft Excel, finding Gaps in Data and formulating solutions for the same. Worked with ETL QA team to plan and create complete test cases, test plans, test data, and reporting status to ensure all the business requirements are successfully tested. ENVIRONMENT: Hybrid, SQL, SOAP UI, MS-Visio, XML, MS-EXCEL, Tableau, HIPAA, ETL, Informatica, Rally, TFS, Agile, Windows XP/2000, Oracle, PL/SQL, MySQL, MS-Project, MS-Office Suite, MS Visio, MS Word, MS Excel Confidential, Minneapolis, MN Scrum Master/ Business Analyst RESPONSIBILITIES: Articulated project goals and scope, translated business needs into technical terms, prepared detailed work breakdown structures (WBS) and instilled shared accountability for achieving project milestones using MS Project. Experienced in eliciting requirements using various techniques such as Brain storming, Joint Application Development (JAD), One on one Interviews, Document analysis, Prototype, Survey/Questionnaire, Interface analysis and focus group sessions. Assisted the business in redesigning the process and created a Business Process Modeling Notation (BPMN), documented the business process flows through solving the complex business problems. Created UML diagrams, Sequence diagrams, Prototypes and Mock ups for user stories to make it better understand the context to developers using MS-Visio. Assisted product owner in converting high-level requirements (EPICS and Features) into User Stories that adheres the INVEST criteria, and in prioritizing those product backlog items using MoSCoW technique following TDD approach. Utilized techniques like KANO method to aid in effective prioritization of user stories. Worked closely with Product Owner during Backlog Grooming sessions and maintained product backlog in Jira. Extensively applied the best use of Jira and Confluence tool features for team and deliverables management in creating the release planning and tracking the Metrics and artifacts like Velocity, Capacity, Scrum Board, User Stories, Tasks, Sprint Burndown and Release Burnup Charts to senior management. Supported portfolio's risk (measuring and monitoring the risk in the Capital Markets balance sheet) position with attribution to provide feedback to senior management on business strategies. Created custom reports and performed data analysis using MS Excel (used advance functions like Pivot tables, VLOOKUP, HLOOKUP) and Tableau. Worked with Legal and compliance team to ensure the Application is developed in compliance with Sarbanes-OxleyActof 2002 (SOX), FINCEN, SEC, Dodd-Frank and FINRA for the Portfolio Rebalancing application. Assisted the QA team with manual, functional, system and regression testing in HP Quality Center. Worked with test team to develop test case, test plan and ensure the testing results correspond to the business expectations. ENVIRONMENT: Scrum, SQL, SOAP UI, MS-Visio, XML, MS-EXCEL, Tableau, Microsoft Office Suite 2012, MS Visio 2012, MS Project 2012, Windows XP, EXT.js 6.0, SOA, JIRA, Confluence, C#, ASP.Net, Balsamic, HP QC v11.0 Confidential Business Analyst - (Scrum Master) RESPONSIBILITIES: Primary Liaison between the business users and cross functional team for the implementation of business solutions of the Ecommerce (B2B or B2C) web based and mobile based application that improves business efficiency while meeting the business goals. Worked with clients to identify, validate and document business objectives through workshops, surveys, JAD sessions, interviews sessions and research for the scope definition and development of business case. Defined the project scope and prepared the risk and feasibility analysis using inputs from the Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) and presented to the Business and IT teams. Mentor teams to effectively use agile ceremonies like sprint planning, daily stand-ups, and retrospectives and sprint reviews to provide working outcomes in every sprint. Analyzed the Business Requirements and created User stories, Use Case Diagrams, BPNM diagrams, swim lanes, Activity Diagrams, prototypes, mockups and wireframes using MS Visio, Balsamiq for inventory analysis and track the progresses using JIRA. Assisted in designing test plans, test scenarios and test cases for integration, regression, and user acceptance testing (UAT) to improve the overall quality of the application. Provided the test metrics, reports, and schedules as necessary using MS Project and participated in the design walkthroughs and meetings. Assisted Quality Assurance team in black box testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), Alpha-Beta testing, writing test cases, test plans using feature files in Gherkin’s format on Cucumber. Worked with the SAP Procurement team to identify viable technical solution for the implementation and performed the detailed planning and designing on the SAP system with the customer in mind. Performed Gap analysis using MS Visio for new functionality requirements, as well as prioritized them based on actual business needs, aligning them with the product release roadmap. Created visually impactful dashboards in Excel using pivot tables and Tableau for data reporting. Wrote SQL queries to extract data and perform the backend testing to meet the functional and business requirement. ENVIRONMENT: Jira, Agile, Windows XP/2000, Oracle, PL/SQL, MySQL, MS-Project, MS-Office Suite, MS Visio, MS Word, MS Excel, Tableau. Confidential Business System Analyst RESPONSIBILITIES: Conducted a high-level requirement gathering session with product managers, business owners, to understand business needs, requirements. Prepared Business Requirement Documents (BRD) and used Requisite Pro to manage, analyze, and convert business requirements into functional specifications. Used RUP methodology to analyze and translate business requirements into system specifications, communicating with the business on a broader scale and with an in-depth view too. Designed and developed the logical and physical data models to support the Data Marts in Data Warehouse Conducted feasibility study and performed scope analysis for the proposed enhancements and made recommendations to the business users using Rational Clear Case. Designed, developed and implemented ETL processes using SQL server including extraction of data from source systems, data mapping into a Star Schema and the generation of OLAP cubes. Performed Data mapping, logical data Modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data. Worked on generating various dashboards in MS excel and Tableau Server using different data sources such as Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, and Microsoft Analysis Services. Created test cases and test scenarios and conducted testing in compliance with 21 CFR part11. Provided continuous improvements to BI reports and BI trainings to end users. Integrated Salesforce data management sources into the SSIS Datawarehouse through the Salesforce connector. Responsible to create role based and profile-based security level access set up for SFDC CRM application. Responsible for performing administrative functions in Salesforce CRM such as create/modify pick lists and lookup fields, periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflow, campaign management. ENVIRONMENT: Agile, Mock up screens, Visual Studio, SQL, HTML, Rational Doors, Salesforce CRM, Service Cloud, Salesforce CPQ, APEX Data Loader, MSBI, SSIS, SSRS, Power BI, Force.com, ANSI SQL, T-SQL, JIRA, MS Office suite (Excel, PowerPoint, Visio), Rational Rose, Scrum, HP-ALM. Confidential Business Analyst RESPONSIBILITIES: Collaborated with cross functional team members and worked on requirements gathering, project scoping, and technical documentation for eCommerce web based and mobile based development. Elicited the requirement and translated into high level Business Requirement Document (BRD), Functional Requirement Document (FRD) and System Requirement Specification (SRS). Followed supply chain platform for reducing cost by improving inventory utilization and optimizing order fulfilment processes across virtually all locations matching supply and demand. Worked with the SAP Ariba team to implement Ariba Supply Chain Collaboration and supplier, procurement and spend Analysis. Monitored integration points between SAP ERP and Ariba, performed troubleshooting and supported migration and integration errors while working with internal IT to resolve issues. Defined the context of the system by creating various UML diagrams such as Use case diagrams, activity diagrams, ER, Interaction, Database conceptual diagrams and prototypes/mock-ups using MS Visio. Utilized MS Project to create Work Breakdown Structures (WBS), prioritized the tasks and to track the progress of the project and improve efficiency from time to time. Created reports to capture KPIs, Change Impact Analysis, Risk Assessment, Mobile Application Performance Drivers, and other miscellaneous reports to assist management in decision making. Involved in different testing stages of the product through unit testing, system integration testing and User Acceptance Testing (UAT) testing and logged opened and closed defects using HP Quality Center. Spearheaded 6 Ticket team members, managed ad monitored the Incident management and Problem Management tickets by assigning, tracking and generating trend reports in BMC Remedy. ENVIRONMENT: Waterfall Methodology, UML, SQL, MS-Office, MS Project, MS Visio, User acceptance testing (UAT), Quality Center, MS Excel, MS Word, Java 1.5, JSP, Servlet, RAD, IBM WebSphere, IBM DB2, JDBC, JSP, AJAX, HTML, Junit, JavaScript, Webservices, SOAP, XML, HP-ALM, SAP Crystal Report Confidential System Analyst Responsibilities: Understood the business needs and worked with SMEs and Senior Business Analyst in creating and reviewing business requirements documents, functional specifications, project schedules, and test plans. Assisted the Senior Business Analyst in conducting JAD sessions and worked on low-level technical requirements. Created Data Flow Diagrams to understand data interactions of new system with existing systems. Designed and developed Use Cases, Use Case Diagrams and Activity Diagrams using Microsoft Visio. Supported testing, Test Cases in HP Quality Center that would test various Test scenarios. Designed and developed the business module applications using Java, Servlets, JSP and JDBC. Worked on Hibernate framework used in persistence layer for mapping the model with oracle database. Helped the development team in understanding and Implementing various J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, DAO, Transfer Object, and Factory. Identified the configuration and implementation procedures to integrate the billing application with the existing SAP Central ERP System. Designed the system to parse XML documents and XSLT through SAX and DOM Parser for transformations. Wrote Java Scripts for client-side validations and performed unit testing using Junit Framework. Performed UAT on business requirements, technical specifications and business objective. Provided production support and resolved critical issues during support and maintenance of projects for the Global Billing System. ENVIRONMENT: Waterfall, Microsoft Project, Rational Clear Quest, UNIX, MS Excel, JSP, Servlet, Oracle9i, IBM WebSphere, JDBC, JSP, AJAX, HTML, DHTML, Junit, Hibernate, JPA, JavaScript. 