SUMMARY Thought leader with 12 Yrs. of experience in Data Management Solutions, Business Intelligence and Data Warehousing, Advanced Analytics solutions in massively parallel / distributed systems Information Technology Specialist with a strong background in Business Intelligence, Oracle E - Business Suite, Fusion Middleware, Data Warehousing, Program/Project Management, Application Development, Support and Configuration. Excellent experience in handling Global team structures. Successfully lead multiple large and complex OBIEE / OBIA Implementations across Financials, Sales and Marketing, Supply Chain and custom Analytics modules. Proven expertise in management and deployment of OBIEE / OBIA and ODI - (Architecture, Strategy, Systems Management, Implementation, Delivery and Maintenance Processes, Resource Optimization). Expertise in configuration and integration of BI publisher with BI Answers and BI Server. BI Publisher reports development, render the same via BI Dashboards. Good understanding of upgrade path to OBIEE 12c by leveraging Oracle 12c upgrade utility and good experience of new features and enhancements including Visual Analyzer. Proficient in following Systems Development Life Cycle to deliver the project in a timely manner. Excellent problem solving, troubleshooting and decision-making skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS OLAP/Reporting:  OBIEE 12c/11/10, OBIA, BICS, BI /XML Publisher, Tableau RDBMS:  Oracle, Teradata Applications:  Oracle E - Business Suite Releases 11.x / R12, Siebel CRM, PeopleSoft Big Data Tools:  Hadoop, R, MapReduce ETL Tools: TDE, Informatica, ODI, DAC Data Modeling:  MS Visio, Erwin. Operating Systems: Windows XP, Linux, UNIX PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Westlake, TX Lead BI Consultant Responsibilities: Lead the team in upgrading their Asset Management’s OBIEE system to 12c. Worked with business users, and functional analysts in identifying their gaps and lead the parallel effort in enhancing their custom reports. Environment: OBI 12c, BI Publisher Confidential, Dayton, OH Lead BI Consultant Responsibilities: Assist in implementing Business Intelligence project as part of Multimillion dollar ERP / Database / BI upgrade. Retired different legacy BI tools and lead the effort of designing and deploying data visualizations and reports using OBIEE and BI Publisher for Executive Team. Worked with business users, functional analysts and data warehouse analysts to develop custom and complex reports and dashboards Lead the onsite and offshore team on metadata and ETL development. Environment: OBI 12c, BI Publisher, Oracle Confidential, Columbus, IN Lead BI Consultant Responsibilities: Involved in Analysis, Requirement gathering, function/technical specification and leading the team on development, deployment and testing. Lead deployment of OBIA / ODI with EBS as the data source. Worked extensively on OBIEE Answers and Dashboards to create the reports as per the client requirements on Financial Domain. Developed highly formatted and complex BIP reports to shadow legacy reports. Overall Governance, Administration and OBI Security implementation. Performance tuning of reports and dashboards. Involved in POC for 12c configuration and setup along with Upgrade plan. Environment: OBIEE 11 / OBIA Financials, BI Publisher, ODI, Teradata Confidential, Des Moines, IA Lead BI Consultant Responsibilities: Deployment of Teradata Decision Experts (pre-built Star package for Oracle EBS), with EBS R12 for AR module Extensions and customizations to AR out-of-the-box domain Support unit testing using LIV validation and report development using Teradata Decision Insight Support and knowledge transfer of TDE Semantic model for Micro strategy development Environment: Teradata Decision Experts, SQL Assistant, TDI, Teradata Confidential, Columbus, IN Lead BI Consultant Responsibilities: Involved in Analysis, Requirement gathering, function/technical specification and leading the team on development, deployment and testing. Lead deployment of OBIA / ODI with EBS as the data source. Worked extensively on OBIEE Answers and Dashboards to create the reports as per the client requirements on Financial Domain. Developed highly formatted and complex BIP reports to shadow legacy reports. Overall Governance, Administration and OBI Security implementation. Performance tuning of reports and dashboards. Environment: OBIEE 11 / OBIA Financials, BI Publisher, ODI, Teradata Confidential, San Antonio, TX BI Consultant Responsibilities: Analyze business problems and design proper solutions utilizing OBIEE in the design and development of dashboards and reports. Lead offshore development team with project design for implementation. Lead offshore team with daily development tasks. Supported OBIEE Repository development, security configurations, performance optimizations and Cache management. OBIA for Financials (GL, AP, AR) deployment and custom extensions. Lead requirement gathering sessions, design documents, standardized custom framework, and worked with offshore in delivery of custom extensions Environment: OBIEE 11.1.1.7, ODI, BRM Confidential, Iselin, NJ BI Consultant Responsibilities: Worked with business users, functional analysts and data warehouse analysts to develop enterprise wide data warehouse solutions Worked on OBIA Sales and Marketing and Supply chain modules with required customizations. OBIEE Repository development, security configurations, performance optimizations and Cache management. Custom Dashboard development based on Customer Business Metrics in Agile development environment. Replicated OBIEE reports based on Legacy Cognos reporting system. Design and develop complex BI Publisher reports Worked on SmartView integration to generate reports as replacement for Office BI. Utilized the SVN process as version control to track changes. Lead offshore team with daily development tasks. Lead the effort of designing and deploying data visualizations using Tableau for Executive Team. Conducted data profiling and utilized Tableau to analyze large data sets Connected to large data source and manipulated complex SQL queries and reshaped the data for analysis and reporting. Environment: OBIA / OBIEE 11.1.1.5/, BI Publisher, Informatica, Tableau, EBS, SiebelCRM Confidential, Pittsburg, PA BI Consultant Responsibilities: Involved in Analysis, Requirements gathering, functional /technical specifications, development, deployment and testing of OBIEE and BIP reports in Retail domain Worked on Procure and Spend analytics along with Custom OBIEE requirements. Custom Dashboard development based on Customer Business Metrics in Agile development environment. Setup and Configuration of BIP with OBIEE. Developed highly formatted and complex BIP reports. Worked withDatabase and Functional teams to ensure proper Unit, System, User Acceptance, and Performance testing. Mentor junior OracleBIPublisherdevelopers Environment: OBIEE    10.1.3.4.1  , BI Publisher, Teradata Confidential, Gainesville, FL BI Consultant / Advisor Responsibilities: Involved in Installation, Configuration Analytic and BI Publisher reports in OBIEE 11.1.1.3. Developed highly formatted reports and perform workshops to THIG resources Lead Assessment and Training on below topics Developing highly formatted BI Publisher reports and deployment options. Advanced topics in RPD development Best practices for formatting analytics and repository maintenance Demonstration on Data Dictionary, Agents, KPI’s and Scheduler Environment: BI Publisher, OBIEE 11.1.1.3, Windows 7, Linux Server. Confidential, Rochester, NY BI Consultant / Trainer Responsibilities: Involved in Installation, Configuration, deployment of BI Publisher reports. Integrated BI Server and BI Publisher, with Native EBS security model, folder access management within BI Publisher on Standalone and on TEST and PROD environments. Develop highly formatted reports and perform workshops to Confidential resources Lead Assessment and performed training on below topics Review and training on adding Microsoft Access / Excel as a data source. Training and Workshops for both Beginners (20 users) and Power Users (20) Creation of Training Materials for the sessions Advanced training based on OIC data and Noetix Data. Two sessions. Approx 40 users. Environment: BI Publisher, OBIEE    10.1.3.4.1  , Windows XP / 2003 server Confidential, Houston, TX BI Architect Responsibilities: Involved in Analysis, Requirements gathering, functional /technical specifications, development, deployment and testing. OBIEE Repository development, security configurations, performance optimizations Extensively used OBIEE Administration Tool for Customizing and modifying the physical, business, and presentation layer of the repository. Configured Security and Authentication with Siebel security model and LDAP security model. Worked extensively on OBIEE Answers and Dashboards, extensive usage of Compound Layouts, Narratives, drill-across, guided navigations etc. Configured BI Publisher and Integrated with OBIEE server. Upgrade of OBIEE    10.1.3.4.1   over to OBIEE11g, used RCU utility for the migration of RPD and Catalog. Environment: OBIEE    10.1.3.4.1   /11g, Siebel CRM 8.1, BI Publisher Confidential, Houston, TX BI Consultant Responsibilities: Involved in Analysis, Requirements gathering, functional /technical specifications, development, deployment and testing Installed and configured OBIEE 10g and Custom development of the RPD on Oracle 11g RDBMS. Upgraded from OBIEE 10g to OBIEE 11g including the upgrade of 7.8.4 applications to 7.9.6 applications Configured BI Publisher and Integrated with OBIEE server Implemented and customized OBIA Financials, Order Management and Supply chain modules. Developed few XML Publisher reports in Peoplesoft 9.0 Environment: OBIEE 10/ 11, OBIA, BI Publisher, Oracle 10/11g, Toad, PeopleSoft Confidential, Alpharetta, GA Senior OBIEE Consultant Responsibilities: Involved in Analysis, Requirement gathering, function/technical specification, development, deploying and testing. Worked extensively on OBIEE Answers and Dashboards to create the reports as per the client requirements. Worked extensively on various Cache Management techniques to increase the performance of the both Real-Time and Non-Real-Time reports. Configuring iBots to deliver analytics content based on schedule to obtain weekly reports and sent notification Alerts. Environment: OBIEE 10.1.3.4, BI Publisher, Oracle 10g, Informatica 8.6, DAC, Toad, Windows XP, PL/SQL, Erwin. Confidential Senior OBIEE Consultant Responsibilities: Participated in requirements gathering, prepare System Design Documents, and dimensional modelling and upgrade from 7.8 to OBIEE 10.1.3.3 Participated in migrating Oracle Discoverer End-User-Layer (EUL) over to OBIEE platform Reviewed existing Oracle Discoverer environment on Oracle 10g Database, and architected migration of reporting over to OBIEE solution Utilized Oracle provided migration utility to migrate Discoverer EUL (metadata) over to OBIEE RPD Developed several BI Publisher reports with both BI Answers, and Oracle Discoverer as the data sources. Oracle Discoverer data source was a temporary solution, while being entirely migrated over to OBIEE QA testing and data validation support Environment: OBIEE 10.1.3.3, Oracle Applications Release 11.5.10 (PA, PO, Financials), Oracle BI Publisher, Oracle RDBMS 10g, Oracle Application Express 3.1 Confidential Siebel Analytics Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Creating and Administering the Physical Layer, Business Model and Mapping Layer and Presentation Layer in a Siebel Analytics Repository. Configured analytics repository with logical dimensional modeling using Star Schema (Facts and Dimensions). Created ibots and Delivers to send Alert messages to subscribed users. Worked on various Informatica mappings as per business requirement. Worked extensively on Unit testing, Integration testing and fixed bugs during the UAT phase. Environment: Siebel Analytics 7.7.1, Informatica Power Center 6.1, Oracle 8i, TOAD, UNIX Confidential Application consultant Responsibilities: Developed and implemented RICE components Designed and developed the interface for Customer details that loads data from legacy systems into Oracle Receivables Assigned new users with privileges by using system Administration to which were attached specific menus, data groups, and request groups through responsibility for restricted end user access Involved in creating various reports, which includes Tabular, Group by matrix and Form Letter types. Environment: Oracle Applications Release 10.0.3, XML Publisher, Forms 6i, Reports 6i, Windows NT, Unix. 