SUMMARY 2 years of experience as a sales executive in competitive environment and 1 year of customer executive experience. Strong communication skill and recognized by my ability to talk with client professionally and providing best solution and proven sales executive with excellence skills. AREAS OF EXPERTISE Self - Motivating, good listening& digital marketing skills Time management, Strong leadership& Continuous learning skills Enthusiastic and passionate Excellent written and verbal communication skills. Accounting software Sage 50 &Sage 300•Outstanding knowledge of MS Office PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Customer service Representative  Confidential  Responsibilities: Answer telephone calls from guests seeking to make or cancel hotel reservations Responsible for accurate check in and out of guests. Greeting arriving guests, assign rooms, issue keys, and collect guest payment and Billing information Answer guest requests for assistance and coordinate with housekeeping, bell service, Staff and management to fulfill guest requirements. Assisting guests with ground Answer guest requests for assistance and coordinate with housekeeping, bell service, Sr. Sales Executive (Account Executive)  Confidential Responsibilities: Interacting with Clients or Primary Vendors on a regular day-to-day basis, and coordinating & maintaining relationship. Providing support for clients by learning about and satisfying their needs. Scheduling Interviews for Consultants and guiding them at the time of interview by providing the information of the client Discussed with Bench Consultants and successfully placed them with various clients. Developing sales strategies and setting quotas& Maintaining a database of contact information Responsible to complete Target per month which is demanded by management. Building long-lasting, mutually beneficial relationships with external contacts and internal departments to create a better customer experience. Extensive use of job boards for sourcing requirements on web such as Dice, Monster, Career Builder, Tec fetch, Google Groups, Linked in, Indeed and many more. Making cold calls or reaching out to forecasts Provide day to day activities report to the manager and discuss about the issues Respond to complaints and resolve issues aiming to customer contentment and the preservation of the company’s reputation Sales Executive  Confidential Responsibilities: Conduct physical verification of seat occupancy and publish weekly and monthly reports Performed general office duties and administrative tasks Finding vendors and sale the profile of candidates according to skill set Negotiates with vendors about deal and place them Office Admin work responsibilities like courier, Debit Note and Credit notes Prepared weekly confidential sales reports for presentation to management Provided conclusive report to the manager for each task. Scheduled client appointments and maintained up-to-date confidential client files