SUMMARY Around 8+ Years of professional IT experience in all aspects of Data Warehousing System Development Lifecycles (SDLC) including, requirement gathering, data modeling, development, Testing, deployment, maintenance, and enhancements using Reporting & ETL tools - OBIEE, Oracle BI Apps, ODI, DAC, Informatica. Business Intelligence experience using OBIEE 12c and Siebel Analytics 8.1.1, Informatica 7, 8, 9.x, ODI 11g/12c, Endeca Information Discovery and Clover ETL process, Business Objects XiR2/R3/R4. Implemented an easy way for the Business and end users for directly modifying and updating mouse over definitions within their control from logging into Database instead of making the changes in RPD (OBIEE Repository) Experience in Design, Development, Analysis, Implementation, Administration, Maintenance and Support of Siebel Analytics/OBIEE 12c, ODI 11g, 12c, Informatica 9.1 & DAC Proficient in Oracle Tools and Utilities such as SQL Developer, SQL*Loader, SQL*Plus, Data Loader, and TOAD. Extensive experience in configuring Interactive Dashboards with drill-down capabilities using global and local filters, Guided Navigation, Alerts, Security Setup (groups, access privileges) on Metadata Objects and f Catalog Objects like Dashboard, Pages, Folders, Reports, Prompts Developed many Reports / Dashboards with different Analytics Views (Drill-Down / Dynamic, Cascading Style Sheets, Pivot Table, Chart, Gauge, Column Selector, Tabular, KPIs, with global and local Filters) using OBIEE Web. Hands-on Experience in OBIEE 10g/11g Development and Administration, BI Publisher Report development, OBIA integration with Fusion Finance Rel 8 version and worked on latest OBI Apps version Configuration and Development activity. Hands-on experience in OBIA with ODI and DAC/Informatica/OBIEE configuration Hands-on experience in OBIEE 11G, ODI 11G and OBIA and OBIA Environment set up and configuration from scratch level in Linux Environment, Horizontal and Vertical clustering, http configuration, OBIEE integration with Teradata warehouse Expertise in converting and using Oracle pre-built rpd's (Financial Analytics, HR, Sales, Supply Chain, Order Management, Procurement and Spend Analytics etc.) according to business requirements. Expertise in debugging and optimizing the OBIEE Dashboards / Reports Highly experienced in working with OBI Answers, OBI Dashboards, BI Publisher and OBI Delivers. Worked with Global Business Executives of the BI Project and Business users to analyze and determine enhancements and defects while providing knowledge of OBIEE/BI Publisher capabilities to help improve business processes and reporting output. Actively involved setting up OBIEE and BI Publisher across multiple server locations Integrated the BI Publisher with Oracle EBS, BI Answers, Reports, and Dashboards, to generate standardized reports. Involved in developing and testing of the ETL (Extract, Transform and Load) strategy to populate the data from various source systems (flat files and databases) feeds using OWB and PL/SQL. Experience in OOTB Reports & Dashboards which includes Oracle BI Applications and has worked with Finance Analytics, and Sales Analytics/Procurement & Spend analytics. Involved in User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and responsible for bug fixing exercises. Involved in ETL development using Informatica Power Center. Developed Informatica Mappings/Mapplets using various Transformations for Extraction, Transformation and Loading of data from Multiple Sources and Creating Workflows & Tasks, and Scheduling using Workflow Manager. Involved in ODI development using ODI components like Designer, Operator, Topology, and Security Used ODI Designer to develop complex interfaces (mappings) to load the data from the various sources into dimensions and facts. Experience on dealing with ODI Knowledge Modules like, LKM, IKM and JKM, CKM Extensive Experience in developing BI Publisher Reports in 10G/11G Strong experience in OBIEE admin activities as well with managing Migration activities with respect to Dev to QA and QA to Performance environment & Performance to Production environments. Strong knowledge in using Oracle Data Integrator 11g to perform the ETL. Expertise with all ODI tools - Topology, Security Manager, Designer and Operator. Creating variables, sequences, user functions, scenarios, procedures, interfaces and packages in ODI. Extensively experience in development of E-LT and ETL Mapping in Oracle Data Integrator (ODI). ETL jobs creation & customization using Oracle Data Integrator (ODI). Experience in using Oracle Data Integrator Designer (ODI) to develop processes for extracting, cleansing, transforming, integrating, and loading data into data warehouse database. Experience in Security Setup at both Object and Data levels, which involved creation of users/groups, LDAP authentication setup and configuration of Multiuser Development Environment Experienced in BI Publisher, MS Office Plug-in for rich reporting and Expertise in Cache, Usage tracking, Aggregate navigation, Variables/Initialization Blocks configuration etc.) Involved in Installation and configuration of OBIEE 12c and developed POC using OBIEE 12c. Expertise in implementing Security Models for Dashboards, Row level, objects Level, Role Level, and Dashboard Level. Experience in integrating OBIEE with EBS. TECHNICAL SKILLS Oracle Applications: General Ledger, Accounts Receivables, Accounts Payables, Order Management, Inventory, Purchase Order. Business Intelligence tools: OBIEE 10.1.3.2/ 10.1.3.3/ 10.1.3.4/11g, Tableau 10.1/9.3/9.2, BI Publisher, DAC 7.x, Siebel Analytics 7.7 / 7.8 ETL tools: ODI, Informatica Power Mart, Data mart, Informatica Power Center 9.x/8.x/7.x/6.x, Tableau Business modeling Tools: IBM-Rational Requisite Pro, IBM-Rational Rose, MS Visio, Smart Draw, Unified Modeling Language (UML) Data Modeling: Relational Modelling, Dimensional Modelling (Star Schema, Snow-Flake, Fact, Dimensions), Data Quality, Entities, Attributes, ER Diagrams, IBM-Rational Rose, MS Visio Methodologies: Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile methodologies including Extreme Programming (XP), Rational Unified Process (RUP) Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, C, C++, Javascript Web Servers: Apache, Web Sphere, Web Logic, and IIS.IBM RDBMS: Oracle11g/10G/9i/8i/8.0/7.x, MS SQL SERVER 2008/2005, DB2. Operating Systems: Windows 95/98/2000/XP, UNIX, Linux Application Tools: OBIEE 12C, 11.1.1.x, 10.1.3.x, OBIA, BI Publisher, Siebel Analytics 7.x, Oracle BI Apps Methodologies: Waterfall Model, Agile Methodology, Rational Unified Process (RUP) Scheduler: Control-M, AutoSys, Active Batch 7, ESP Scheduler Other Tools: Toad, SQL Navigator, MS Visio, MS-Office (Excel, Ppoint, Word) PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Sr OBIEE/ODI Developer Confidential, NJ Responsibilities: Upgrading from ODI 11G to ODI 12c environment. Developed PL/SQL triggers and master tables for automatic creation of primary keys. Involved and did several customizations for creating the additional reports and Dash boards for General Ledger analysis, fixed assets analysis, Intercompany reporting analysis and Account receivables analysis. Effectively interacted with the end users for requirement gathering and defined requirement specifications document. Helped refine and determine feasibility, correctness, and completeness of end-user's requirements. Developed high level design documents for reporting and analysis projects. CustomizedPurchase Orders, GL, Account Receivables, Account Payables, Procurementand Spend Analytics, Order Management, Inventoryreports using OBIEE 11g Migrated existing reports to OBIEE 12c using Insite warehouse and validate the report results using custom scripts and SQL. Upgrade OBIEE 11G to OBIEE 12C. Reports and catalog migrations and tuning. Integrated BI Publisher with OBIEE Created Excel Templates such as Shareholder's Equity report, Reports such as Deposits over quarter/year in BI Publisher. Schedule reports and bursting as per the requirement in BI Publisher and represented them in OBIEE dashboards. Created exclusive OBIEE Test environment for testing and development purpose. Involved in Merging the RPD and Web Catalog folder with OBIEE Admin tool and Catalog Manager. Created KPI'S and Oracle Score Cards to measure the performance and progress of the business strategy. Worked extensively with Physical Layer, Business Layer, and Presentation Layer in rpd. Created numerous executive level reports. Multiple Dashboards were generated to provide insight into the financial data using OBIEE Answers. Designed Schema/Diagrams using Fact, Dimensions, Physical, Logical, Alias and Extension tables. Strong knowledge with PL/SQL Wrapper to protect the PL/SQL procedures or packages. Used existing data from Oracle EBS for analysis. Compared data from Oracle EBS with the OBIEE for data validation. Identified the aggregate levels for each source and created dimension sources for each level of aggregates. Migrating existing ETL developed in PL/SQL to OWB Primary responsibility includes installing and configuring the Oracle Data Integrator (ODI) software tool in a three-tier environment and performing periodic upgrades, performing source-to-target mappings, storage capacity planning, developing ELT. Used suitable ODI Knowledge modules to achieve requirements. Extracted data from specific technology, transforming the data, checking it, integrating it, etc. Created Custom Knowledge Modules. Used ODI objects in packages like OdiFileMove, ODI File Wait, OdiFileAppend, odiFilecopy etc. Worked on Loading and Integration KM in Flow tab in ODI Interfaces by applying joins with execution location as Target Performed loading of delta changes to target table with CDC and Time stamp process. Performed Versioning of ODI objects using external versioning tools and using internal odi versioning using Solutions. Preparation for data model sheet for customization of existing ODI mapping using Data Lineage tool Security implementation with OIM (OID and ODSM) for OBIA Resolving Upgrade issues to make sure daily loads run efficiently. Experience in configuring ODI Agent on UNIX server and creating new agents and test them in ODI 12c. Involved in analyzing the Business requirement for Oracle Data Integrator and mapped the architecture and used ODI for reverse engineering to retrieve metadata from data storage and load it to the repository Involved in creation and modification of ODI Knowledge Modules such as Reverse Knowledge Module (RKM), Loading Knowledge Module (LKM), Journalizing Knowledge Module (JKM), Integration Knowledge Module (IKM), Check Knowledge Module (CKM) and Service Knowledge Module (SKM). Involved in creating ODI packages, scenarios using interfaces, variables, procedures. Involved in developing, support and maintenance for the Extract, Load and Transform processes using ODI. Involved in performance tuning of ODI Interfaces Defined best practices for report development and effectively used data blending feature. Generated server side PL/SQL scripts for data manipulation and validation and materialized views for remote instances. Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages for moving the data from staging area to data mart. Created scripts to create new tables, views, queries for new enhancement in the application using TOAD. Modify existing ETL jobs in Oracle Data Integrator (ODI). Develop data extracts from the data warehouse environment using ODI. Tested Initialization blocks used in RPD by running the Queries against Database to ensure the correct data being fetched Extensively used the advanced features of PL/SQL like Records, Tables, Object types and Dynamic SQL. Environment: OBIEE 12c/11g, ODI 11g, Oracle 11g, BI Apps 11.1.1.7 (Financial Analytics), SQL Developer, PL/SQL, Win 7, UNIX, BI Publisher, TOAD, SQL Developer, RPD, OBIA, WATER Fall, Power shift, ETL, Power Mart, Tableau, Smart Draw, Snow Flake, HTML, Unix, Linux. OBIEE/ODI Developer Confidential, Westlake, TX Responsibilities: Developed PL/SQL triggers and master tables for automatic creation of primary keys. Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages for moving the data from staging area to data mart. Integrated BI Publisher with OBIEE. Created Templates such as Employee Account Attendance Detail, Reports such as Turn Over/Period/Department, Prompts such as Customer Name in BI Publisher Schedule reports and bursting as per the requirement in BI Publisher and represented them in OBIEE dashboards. Created Various BI Publisher Reports on top of BI Answers and aligned them on various Dashboards as per the requirement. Performed and used OBIEE data level securities - (RW) Row-Wise initialized Non system Session variables and a Logical Table Source (LTS) filter feature. Worked with Business analysts as well as other business teams on requirement gathering. Configured Single Sign On (SSO) on OBIEE 11g. Installing ODI 11.1.1.6 on all the environments and configuring ODI. Patching ODI 11.1.1.6.0 to 11.1.1.6 and Upgrading ODI from 10.1.3.4 to 11.1.1.6.4. Involved in deploying OBIEE 11g objects from one environment to another environment. Involved in Creation & Configuring of the OBIEE Repository from scratch using best practices (physical, BMM, and presentation layers). Involved in creation of Level Based Hierarchy & Parent child Hierarchy to meet business requirements. Configured and created the Repository using the OBIEE administration tool. Generated reports using the OBIEE features like pivot tables, charts and view selector. Created set of dashboards/reports for talent planning, performance management, competencies, and Executive profiles using OBIEE. Installation of OBIA (OBIEE w/ ODI) 11.1.1.8.0 in Linux Designed Schema/Diagrams using Fact, Dimensions, Physical, Logical, Alias and Extension tables. Built Business Model and established relationships and foreign keys (Physical and Logical) between tables. Worked with Customer's ODI specialist on conversion of OWB jobs over to ODI. Generated reports using the OBIEE features like pivot tables, charts and view selector. Created business Reports according to the user requirement. Developed custom reports/ Ad-hoc queries using OBIEE answers and assigned them to application specific dashboards. Developed different types of reports (Pivot, Charts, Tabular) using global and local filters. Managed day-to-day RPD and Scheduler. Created Time- Series calculations using AGO and TODATE functions on BMM layer of Repository. Created session variables for users to provide row- level (data level) security and used the session variable in OBIEE Answers to build the query. Technical and Functional configuration for OBIA Extensively used Catalog Manager for migrating Web Catalog. Worked in developments of analytics Reports using OBIEE Answers and assign them to specific Dashboards with Oracle Financials EBS as source of data from the modules like AP, GL and FA Migration of Security components, custom image prompts, style and skins from OBIEE 11.1.1.7.0 to OBIEE 11.1.1.9.1. Performed Data Validation by executing Unit Test cases for Business Intelligence Reports. Created multiple Dimensions (Drill-Down Hierarchies) & Fact objects in Business Model Layer, and created the Presentation catalogs in Presentation Layer. Modified Presentation Layer to add presentation tables and columns to meet the business user needs. Created materialized views and aggregates to improve performance. ETL jobs creation & customization using Oracle Data Integrator (ODI). Used Yellow Interfaces Reusable mappings in ODI 12c for developing most complex interfaces. GG setup integrated capture to replace CDC. Experience in installing, maintaining, upgrading and patching Golden Gate. Worked on the RPD for the new Subject area design for the Cash flow Metrics Created Reports, Dashboard Prompts and Dashboard Pages like - Budget and Actual, Balance Sheet. Responsible for designing, developing and testing of the ETL strategy to populate the data from various source systems (Flat files, Active Directory-LDAP, SQL Server and Oracle). Created Repositories, Agent, Contexts and both of Physical & Logical Schema in Topology Manager for all the source and target schemas. Testing the newly upgraded ODI 11G and ODI 12C fixing issues related to upgrading and running ODI jobs as per schedule. Created ODI Procedure, ODI Package, ODI Variables, ODI Scenarios, ODI Functions, ODI Mappings, ODI Load Plans. Created the users, profiles using the ODI security manager. Implemented Financial Analytics, Supply chain, Procurement and Spend Analytics. Integrated data from Finance and other enterprise systems and transformed data using ODI (ETL) Environment: OBIEE 11.1.1.6.2/12c, OBIEE 10.1.3.4, BI Apps 11.1.1.7, OBIA, SQL Developer, SQL, PL/SQL, ODI 11g, Oracle 11g/12c, Win XP Professional, UNIX - Solaris, BI Publisher. Sr OBIEE/ODI Confidential, Dallas, TX Responsibilities: Developed OBIEE Data Marts (Ad hoc Reporting) for different clients based on the different business logics. Developed Repository (.rpd), configured metadata objects (Subject Area, Table, Column) and Web Catalog Objects (Dashboard, Pages, Folders, Reports) Involved in OBIEE 10g to OBIEE 11g upgrade for both Repository and Catalog and ensure all the reports and dashboards running on OBIEE 10g is up and running on OBIEE 11g. Created Dashboards and Answers for End user. Worked with OBIEE Answers, Intelligence Dashboards. Demonstrated knowledge in dealing with various functionalities like prompts, views, aggregates, global filters, scheduling, guided navigation, customization, conditional formatting of reports. Implemented Invoice level security in OBIEE depending on the user level access by integrating with EBS. Performed the setting up, Installation and configuration of the complete Analytics platform environment and the required connectivity for seamless integration with the data warehouse. Was involved in the installing and configuring of Financial Analytics. Designed and Developed General Ledger, Payables, Receivables and Profitability Dashboards in OBIEE. Setup Multi User Development Environment (MUDE) in OBIEE. Monitored Incremental and Full load of Data through Data Warehouse Administration Console (DAC) and Informatica Workflow Monitor. Responsible for extracting data from Oracle Apps Modules & loading into stage system and warehouse system. Performed ODI 12c upgrade existing ODI 11, Integrate with OWB. Created and Configured ODI Repositories, Interfaces, Packages, Procedures and Scenarios. Worked closely with the end users/business and designing the documents to the track changes. Used Oracle Data Integrator ODI to develop processes for extracting, cleansing, transforming, integrating, and loading data into data warehouse database and Oracle EBS interface tables. Created and ran Sessions & Workflows to load the data into the Data warehouse. Developed Mappings using corresponding Source, Targets and Transformations like Source Qualifier, Sequence Generator, Filter, Router, Joiner, Lookup, Expression, Update Strategy, and Aggregator. Created Presentation catalogs, and Folders in Presentation Layer, and Performed Global Consistency Check in Oracle BI Administration Tool. Involved in patch upgrade of OBIEE 11g. Worked on OBIEE security like configuring LDAP authentication, creating users and groups etc Configured and Scheduled Sessions and Workflows. Exclusively Involved in Unit Testing, Peer Testing & Regression Testing. Worked on multiple folders at time to meet the dead lines of the tasks Created VPD security for reports in OBIEE. Designed and developed logical model in BMM in Repository. Installed and Configured DAC. Worked using Catalog Manager to migrate Web Catalog from Instance to Instances. Imported and Exported Execution Plan in DAC from one Instance to other Instance. Created custom reports in Payables in OBIEE according to user requirement. Environment: Oracle Applications 11i/R12 iProcurement, General Ledger, Account Payables, Accounts Receivables, Fixed Assets, BI Apps 7.9.5, Siebel Analytics 7.8.4,OBIEE 10.1.3.4.0/10.1..3.3/10.1..3.2, Informatica 8.1.1, DAC 7.9.5, XML/BI Publisher 5.6.3, Discoverer 10g/4i/3i,, SQL*PLUS, SQL*Loader, TOAD, Unix. OBIEE Developer Confidential, New Jersey Responsibilities: Worked on configuration of different component of OBIEE like OBIEE rpd, OBIEE reports and Dashboards configurations and catalog with the entire OOTB component. Used Analytics Web Catalog to set up groups, access privileges and query privileges. Developed Business dashboards for AP, AR, GL, OM & Inventory modules. Preparation of MD 50 & MD 70 documents for Finance, AP, AR, GL, OM & Inventory modules for OBIEE Requirements. Involved in customizing OBIEE (Analytics) repository and Reports testing and data validations and Offshore team coordination Involved in implementation of Pre built OBI analytics (Financial Analytics and Procurement and Spend Analytics) Configured and used DAC to schedule and run the Full and Incremental ETL loads and to schedule the Informatica jobs in Oracle Business Analytic Warehouse. Used various transformations like Source qualifier, gators, Dynamic Lookup, Router, Sequence generator for mappings based upon the requirement. Worked closely with the development team in developing the efficient solutions for Business Users. Configured Informatica connections source DB connection and target DB connection in DAC. Modified out Of the Box (OOB) dimension hierarchies. Developed security for Dashboards/reports based on groups and users Designed the build/migration documents for Repository and Web catalog. Applied content filter in BMM layer to filter data at repository level. Installation and configuration of Out of the box solution of OBI Application (Order Management Analytics, SCM Analytics, Financial Analytics, HR Analytics) on version 10.1.3.4. Changed Out of the box dashboards and provided detail level drill downs to as per business requirements using Oracle Answers. Used BI Office plug-in to view reports in Excel and Power Point.. Used presentation variable in OBIEE Oracle answers to save prompt values and use them for conditional formatting. Worked on Windows platform (pre development environment) and UNIX platform (development/ test environment) to do the administrator tasks. Provided user trainings on application and whenever is needed. Performed and used OBIEE data level securities - (RW) Row-Wise initialized Non system Session variables and a Logical Table Source (LTS) filter feature. Created logical tables and assigned levels and custom aggregation rules Created group accesses and privileges for the OBIEE reports. Created dimension hierarchies and level based measures to drill down to the most detailed level of data as per the business requirements. Environment: Siebel Analytics 7.7, OBIEE 10.1.3.4, BI Apps 7.9.6.3, Oracle 9i & 10g, Informatica 8.6, DAC 10.1.3.4, Quality Center 10.0, Win XP Professional, UNIX - Solaris. OBIEE Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Communicated with business analyst and various end users for gathering the required requirements to setup the environment. Installed and configured the OBIEE 10.1.3.2 server. Participated in all the meetings for gatherings business requirements with end-users and business people. Modified OWB Mappings in ODI that populated large confidential tables. Working closely with Business Analysts and DBAs on physical database design. Created/Modified Metadata repository (.RPD) and Configured Metadata Objects using Siebel Analytics Server Admin tool. Extensively used OBIEE Admin tool to import the required objects (Dimensions and Facts) with integrity constraints into Physical Layer using connection pool. Configured measures in the Business Model Layer and mapped to multiple logical source tables. Implemented Security by creating role, responsibility, and web groups using LDAP Authentication Built Interactive Dashboards with drill-down capabilities, use of global prompts and Presentation variables Successfully developed row based calculations in a pivot table for the reports based on RPD. Created session variables for users to provide row- level (data level) security and used the session variable in OBIEE answers to build the query. Performed Unit, Integration, and Regression testing to validate report and mapping functionality. Environment: OBIEE 10.1.3.4.1, Administration tool, OBIEE Answers/BI Publisher/ Dashboards, Oracle 10g, Informatica Power Center 8.1, PL/SQL 