SUMMARY Over 9 years of IT experience in Design, Development, Testing, Maintenance and Support. Skillful experience in modeling and development of Business Process Integration designing using several TIBCO Suite of products like TIBCO Runtime agent 5.x, TIBCO Active Matrix Business works 5.X, TIBCO Domain Utility, TIBCO Administrator, TIBCO EMS 6.x, TIBCO Hawk Dexterous knowledge on SDLC (Software development life cycle) of Integration (EAI/SOA) projects. Expertise in systems and process monitoring using TIBCO Administrator, with hands on Performance Analysis and Maintenance of System stability. Proficient experience in using messaging standards such as TIBCO EMS and MQ/JMS for distributed computing applications. Proficient experience of handling different transport protocols between applications like TIBCO EMS 6.X, MQ/JMS and HTTPS. Proficient in using Database resources using JDBC and ODBC Connections considering optimum performance. Expertise in Web services using SOAP/JMS, SOAP/HTTPS and SOAP/HTTP. Proficient developing Java Custom Functions for TIBCO Business works. Experience in designing and developing XML Schemas, XSLT, XPath, WSDL, SOAP and HTML. Experience in working with RDBMS technologies such as ORACLE 8i/9i/10g (SQL and PL/SQL), SQL Server 7.0/2000/2005 , Writing SQL queries, stored procedures, functions and triggers. Proficient in developing, importing and exporting Custom Design Time Libraries. Sincere, enthusiastic, hardworking with good communication and interpersonal skills and appetite to learn new skills. Team oriented working style, setting goals and priorities which are specific, measurable, achievable, realistic and time - framed. Provide service delivery included in the areas of Incident, Problem and Change management. Knowledge in Project Execution & Management, Customer Issue Resolution and Process Improvements. Expertise in all aspects of IT strategies with proven strengths in designing and development coherent and comprehensive suite of Banking, Securities and Transport domains. Excellent written & oral communication skills; capable of innovative solutions to engineering issues. TECHNICAL SKILLS TIBCO Messaging: EMS and Rendezvous (RV) TIBCO Integration: Active Matrix Business Works TIBCO Adapters: ADB Adapter, MQ Adapter TIBCO Monitoring: Hawk EAI: Business Works 5.x, TIB/Designer 5.x, ADB 5.x, EMS 4.4.1, Administrator 5.x and Hawk 4.7 Languages: Java, C++, C, ASP .NET, C#, VB .NET, HTML, XML, XPATH, XSLT, XSD, SOAP, XSLT, WSDL, Unix shell scripting, PL SQL. Operating Systems: Windows 7, Vista/2003/XP/98, UNIX (Solaris, Linux), HP-UNIX, Red hat Linux, MS-DOS Databases/Tools: Oracle SQL Developer, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL Protocols: SOAP Tools: Rational Clear Case, SOAP UI, XML Canon, IBM RTC, Tectia SSH Client, Eclipse IDE, CVS Tortoise Verticals: Banking, Securities, Transport PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Dallas,TX TIBCO Developer/ Administrator Responsibilities: Primary developer in Credit Processing and Credit Profiling modules. Involved in High level and detailed level design of different data feeds. Developed different process flows using TIBCO Active Matrix Business Works for the existing applications mentioned above. Developed the module for various countries such as Australia, Japan, China, India, Taiwan, EMEA and CEEMEA. Extensively worked on Requirement gathering and writing functional and technical documents. Involved in creating schemas for the BW Process. Implemented high level design, Test documents and development solutions. Worked on creating EAR and scripts for manual deployment process through TIBCO Administrator. Involved in generation of WSDL'S and Services using TIBCO BW Developed business processes by configuring shared resources, creating process definitions, creating activities and configuring message transports using TIBCO Active Matrix Business Works in TIBCO Designer Worked with SOAP, HTTP, JDBC activities and General activity pallets using TIBCO BW and protocols like HTTP, HTTPS, JMS, and RV. Involved in Installation of TIBCO components (TIBCO TRA suite, EMS, Business Works) & domain setup. Designed and Implemented Business processes and Error Handling Processes using Business Works. Developed required XSD schemas. Client / Onshore co-ordination on daily & weekly basis. Set up the Queues, Topics, Connection Factories, and Bridges on TIBCO EMS Server. Taken care of all the SIT/UAT deployments. Done the testing the interface with the Third Party Teams. Contributed in all the Support and Maintenance activities in SIT/UAT Also responsible to perform the analysis for various change requests, perform impact analysis to find out the systems/programs that could be potentially effected by proposed change(s), coding, and testing and implementation activities. Preparation of the following various technical and functional documents (where applicable depending on the request types) Requirement Specification document, High Level Analysis and Approach document, High Level Design Document, Detailed Design Document, System test plan and test procedure document and implementation plans. Further responsibilities also comprise of ensuring top quality deliverables from Confidential to client and collection of project metrics. Environment: TIBCO BW 5.x, TIBCO EMS, TIBCO Administrator, SOAP UI, XML Canon, IBM RTC, Oracle SQL Server, UNIX- Tectia SSH Client. Confidential - Irving, TX TIBCO Developer Responsibilities: Primary developer engaged in Design and Development Managed various error handling and logging techniques. Involved in generation of WSDL’s and Services using TIBCO BW. Involved in creating XML Schemas, Data Map, preparing Low Level design documents Understanding Business requirements and Business processes. Set up the Queues, Topics, Connection Factories, and Bridges on TIBCO EMS Server Involved in Deployment and Administration of the project, used TIBCO Administrator GUI to monitor and maintain BW process engines. Was responsible for creating Validation Plans and Test cases for Unit Testing and as well as doing Integration testing. Developed business processes by configuring shared resources, creating process definitions, creating activities and configuring message transports using TIBCO Active Matrix Business Works in TIBCO Designer Preparation of the following various technical and functional documents (where applicable depending on the request types) Requirement Specification document, High Level Analysis and Approach document, High Level Design Document, Detailed Design Document, System test plan and test procedure document and implementation plans. Further responsibilities also comprise of ensuring top quality deliverables and collection of project metrics. Environment: TIBCO BW, TIBCO EMS, TIBCO Administrator, SOAP UI, MySql Confidential TIBCO Developer Responsibilities: Primary developer engaged in Design and Development Managed various error handling and logging techniques. Support and Bug Fixing in Unit Testing. Involved in generation of WSDL'S and Services using TIBCO BW. Set up the Queues, Topics, Connection Factories, and Bridges on TIBCO EMS Server Involved in Creating XML Schemas, Data map, preparing Low Design Documents. Understanding Business Requirements & Business processes Design architecture options for future enhancements and suggest improvements in current architecture. Developed Business processes by configuring shared resources, creating process definitions, creating activities and configuring message transports using TIBCO Active Matrix Business Works in TIBCO Designer Involved in configuration of different environments like Development and Testing for the TIBCO Active enterprise tools like Enterprise Message Service, Business Works, and Administration. Preparation of the following various technical and functional documents (where applicable depending on the request types) Requirement Specification document, High Level Analysis and Approach document, High Level Design Document, Detailed Design Document, System test plan and test procedure document and implementation plans. Further responsibilities also comprise of ensuring top quality deliverables and collection of project metrics. Environment: TIBCO BW, TIBCO EMS, TIBCO Administrator, TIBCO Adapters, MySql Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Primary developer engaged in Design and Development. Managed various error handling and logging techniques. Design architecture options for future enhancements and suggest improvements in current architecture. Preparation of the following various technical and functional documents (where applicable depending on the request types) Requirement Specification document, High Level Analysis and Approach document, High Level Design Document, Detailed Design Document, System test plan and test procedure document and implementation plans. Presented in the “CITIBANK ACADEMY” and won accolades for my Innovative skills. Further enhanced the project with the further requirements. Environment: Java, Eclipse IDE, SQL Server 2005 Confidential C, UNIX Developer Responsibilities: Understanding Business Requirements and Business Processes. Involved in all phases of SDLC Design architecture options for future enhancements and suggest improvements in current architecture. Generate (if needed) throwaway prototypes to understand complex business requirements. Help the team in meeting their deadlines, solve technical problems and provide technical design suggestions, guide them in designing Schemas for their interfaces, validate and suggest how to design the process flows, do the code review of their interfaces and help them fixing the bugs. Presented in the “ Confidential TRAINING ACADEMY” and won accolades for my Innovative and technical skills. Environment: C, UNIX. Confidential Project Intern Responsibilities: Design and development of the tool. Involved in all phases of SDLC Understanding Business Requirements & Business processes Design architecture options for future enhancements and suggest improvements in current architecture. Contributed in all the Support and Maintenance activities in SIT/UAT Also responsible to perform the analysis for various change requests, perform impact analysis to find out the systems/programs that could be potentially effected by proposed change(s), coding, and testing and implementation activities. Preparation of the following various technical and functional documents (where applicable depending on the request types) Requirement Specification document, High Level Analysis and Approach document, High Level Design Document, Detailed Design Document, System test plan and test procedure document and implementation plans. Further responsibilities also comprise of ensuring top quality deliverables from Confidential to client and collection of project metrics Environment: ASP .NET, JavaScript, C#, IIS, Microsoft Data Access Application Blocks, SQL Server 2005, CVS Tortoise, HTML, Microsoft Enterprise Libraries 2006 Binaries. Confidential Responsibilities: Design and development of the tool. Involved in all phases of SDLC Design architecture options for future enhancements and suggest improvements in current architecture. Contributed in all the Support and Maintenance and Enhancement Activities Also responsible to perform the analysis for various change requests, perform impact analysis to find out the systems/programs that could be potentially effected by proposed change(s), coding, and testing and implementation activities. Preparation of the following various technical and functional documents. Won many Accolades for all the College projects. Environment: Java, JavaScript, Oracle 9g, SQL Server, CVS Tortoise, HTML. 