SUMMARY: Having 8 Plus years of IT industry experience in all aspects of analysis, design, testing, development and implementation of client/server applications. 4 years of experience in Designing and development of business Intelligence application wif Qlikview Experience covers all aspects of business Intelligence applications wif strong background in developing a database and Data warehousing support systems. Expertise in configuringQlikviewServer,QlikviewPublisher andQlikviewDesktop and upgrading to teh existing versions. Experience in sourcing data from disparate systems wif a good understanding of their Data models and ETL procedures. Ability to offer end - to-end solutions starting from requirements gathering, design, development and deployment of Business Intelligence applications. Experience in end to end implementation of BI projects especially in creating KPI’s, reports and dashboards. Experience in design and development ofQlikviewfor OLTP and OLAP Systems. Developed ETL Scripts to resolve Circular Relationships, Synthetic Keys& Modeling Issues. Experienced in Qlikview/ Qliksense visualization and storytelling skills Experience wif Creating QVD's and Scheduled jobs for QVD extracts and report loads. Well versed wifQlikviewSchemas like Star and Snowflake Schemas and loading techniques Incremental, Buffer, Preceding, and Binary loads. Good Understanding of Qlikview/Qliksense integration issues. Experience in creating scripts to resolve circular loops, Synthetic keys and Modeling issues inQlikview. Implemented security using Section Access to restrict untheorized access in teh dashboards depends upon user privileges. Experience in using Mashup API’s for building client servers and web sites. Hands on Tableau for creating ad hoc reports. Expertise in using Excel in framing VLOOKUP’s, subtotals & conditional formatting. Extensive noledge in Sheet objects, Charts, exporting teh reports to MS-Excel, handling teh variables and aggregated functions ofQlikview. Hands on using Section access, set analysis, Access point to provide customized functionality in Qlik Experience in creating scheduled jobs through Qlikview management console for Qliksense Experience in importing teh data, removing teh data & updating teh data from various databases. Expertise in reducing teh complexity using different methods like using Macros, Set Analysis, Joins, Keep's and Mappings usingQlikview. Experience in writing SQL queries, Functions, Views and Stored procedures. Ability to meet deadlines and handle multiple tasks, decisive wif strong leadership qualities, flexible in work schedules TECHNICAL SKILLS: BI Tools:  QlikView 10/11,Tableau 9.0, QlikView Publisher, QlikSense 2.0/2.2. Databases:  MySQL, Teradata 14.0, MS SQL Server, Oracle, DB2, Informatica, Toad. Web Technologies:  HTML, Java Script, VB Script, Servlets. Operating Systems:  Windows, Linux & Unix. Languages:  C, SQL, Shell Scripting, PHP, HTML, PL/SQL. Other Tools:  MS Visual studio 2008, SQL Loader, MS-Excel, MS Access, MS Office. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, Woonsocket, RI  Qlikview Developer Responsibilities: Involvedin extracting, transforming and loading data from sources into Qlikview. Created buttons, List boxes, Multi boxes, slider, charts, text objects, bookmarks, etc. Implemented Set Analysis to provide teh custom functionality in Qlik Applications. Eliminated circular loops& synthetic keys in teh data model. Extensively used Excel for weekly rollout reports. Hands on Tableau in creating ad hoc reports. Extensively used Pivot tables for representing teh multiple dimensions in teh analysis of data. Involved in Training Sessions and prepared documentation. Developed Dashboards using differentQlikviewObjects like Line Chart, Bar Chart, Pivot table, Pie Chart, Container etc. Used Incremental load to update teh new data in Qlik document. Involved in updating and inserting teh data in teh Database.Extracted data from Teradata and stored into QVD files. Used set analysis to compare performance between varying time periods, geographic region, and product lines. Extracted data from Teradata and stored into QVD files. Hands on appending teh data & queries in teh Access database. Implemented 3 Tire architecture in deploying Qlikview application. Involved closely wif users when creating teh visualization for reaching teh expectations. Developed mockup dashboards while teh client is migrating from Tableau to Qlikview. Involved in managing data and maintaining teh QVDs And QVWs in QlikView deployment. Used QMC for configure tasks and publish teh QVW files Environment: Qlikview 11, Teradata 14.0, Excel, MS Access, Tableau 9.0, SQL Server, MySQL. Confidential, Farmington Hills, Michigan Qlikview/Qliksense Developer Responsibilities: Involved in requirementsgathering, analyzing, and documenting business requirements and data specifications Involvedin extracting, transforming and loading data from sources into Qlikview/Qliksense applications Worked on deployment of Qliksense/Qlikview dashboards from Dev to UAT and UAT to PROD Worked extensively on complex Data models as per client requirements. Eliminated Synthetic keys, ambiguous relationships and closed loops. Created scheduled jobs through QlikSense management console (QMC). Extracted data from teh database and stored into QVD files. Created Complex data model wif necessary fact tables and dimension tables. Extensively used Qlik functions such as Date and Time, Keep, join, Concatenate, Mapping Load, Inline Load etc. Assist wif QlikSense Server integration issues. Connected to oracle database using ODBC and OLEDB data sources and tables Analyzed teh existing QlikView data model, script logics and teh ETL business logic for teh existing QlikView applications using Document Analyzer. Executed teh scripts and checked teh incorporated script changes in teh application. Developing Set Analysis to provide teh custom functionality in QlikView Applications. Implemented incremental load for teh Update of QVD’s. Supported in modifying, testing and implementation of existing reports. Developed different dashboard wif a complex database system which includes extracting data from teh database, storing into QVD files, write load scripts, and develop UI according to user requirements. Used set analysis to compare performance between varying time periods, geographic region, product lines, etc. Implemented security using section access that dynamically hides selected areas of dashboard depending up on user privileges Created Objects like List boxes, Multi boxes, slider, buttons, charts, text objects, bookmarks, etc. Developed graphs and pivot tables to summarize teh outlying data points to perform exploratory data analysis. Worked wif Business Analyst and teh Business user to understand teh user requirements, layout, and look and feel of teh application to be developed. Environment: Qliksense 2.0/2.2, Oracle 11g, SQL Server, Informatica Power Center, PL/SQL Developer, SQL Loader Confidential, Reston, Virginia Qlikview/Qliksense Developer Responsibilities: Understanding Business requirements and translate into Application and operational needs using Qlikview reporting tool. Worked on teh documentation for application development. Installed and configured Qlikview Server Small Business Edition. Involved in extracting, transforming and loading data from sources into Qlikview/Qliksense applications Generated ODBC Connections to extract from data bases and store them in QVDs. Extracted data from multiple data sources (SQL Server, Excel) and designed data model. Implemented Star Schema and Snow Flake schema in designing teh data model. Used Link Tables to avoid circular reference and Loop issues. Developed Dashboards using differentQlikviewObjects Line Chart, Bar Chart, Gauge Chart, Pie Chart, List box, Multi box, Table Box, Container etc. Worked wif Alternate States to distinguish teh selections for different charts wif in a sheet. Implemented Security involved in Deployment ofQlikviewApplications. Extensively implemented advanced SET Analysis for aggregation calculations. Automated and Scheduled data loads and Dashboard Applications weekly and Notifications by email to assigned users using Server. Worked on deployment of Qliksense dashboards from Dev to UAT and UAT to PROD Modified Existing Login page to Access point to Client Specific Login Page. Responsible for teh performance and tuning of teh application, including performing maintenance upgrades on applications programs and systems as required. Converted Excel and crystal reports toQlikviewdashboards. Experience in reporting activities which involved Business score card, sales and operations report. Coordinated wif Business users in development process to integrate wif teh Test and Production Servers and helped creating use cases. Involved in User Training Sessions and Preparing Documentation. Environment: Qlikview10/11,Qliksense 2.0, Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2008, SQL, HTML, Excel, CSV Files. Confidential, San Francisco, CA Qlikview Developer Responsibilities: Extracted teh data from various data sources such as databases, Excel documents and CSV files, transforming teh data into standard format and load teh data so that it is available for analyzing and creating reports. Finding and Understanding teh essential data, eliminating teh data which doesn't suit teh requirement. Designed and development of Qlikviewplatform to integrate wif Expandable Databases. Generated ODBC and OLEDB connections to extract data. Imported Data from Multiple data sources which also includes Web files, MS-SQL Server, MS-Excel through OLEDB and ODBC connections, Text, CSV files. Participation in enterprise BI strategy developments. Converted excel and crystal reports toQlikview. QlikviewImplementation and Integration. Wrote SQL Scripts to load relevant data inQlikviewApplications. Implemented advanced SET analysis for aggregation calculations. DevelopingQlikviewsolutions and utilize them to develop complex reports and executive dashboard. Extensively used MACROS, Set Analysis and experience in creating expressions. Developed Dashboards using differentQlikviewObjects Line Chart, Bar Chart, Gauge Chart, Pie Chart, List box, Multi box, Table Box, Container etc. Documented Architectural Concepts and technical specifications. Create and ManageQlikviewScripts. Creating teh data models, handling synthetic keys and circular loops. Experience in reporting activities which involved Business score card, sales and operations report. Coordinated wif Business users in development process to integrate wif teh Test and Production Servers and helped creating use cases. Involved in Training Sessions and prepared documentation. Implementing teh reload tasks and distribution tasks using theQlikviewpublisher. Environment: Qlikview 10, MS Access 2005, Windows 2000 Server Informatica Power center 8.6, Oracle 10g. Confidential, North wales, Pennsylvania SQL Developer/Data Analyst Responsibilities: Actively involved as part of a team for gathering and analyzing teh needs of end user requirements and system specifications. Identify, propose and implement enhancements over teh existing reports to improve user experience. Wrote Unix Shell Scripts, undertook Code Optimization and Performance tuning of teh application. Performed teh uploading and downloading flat files from UNIX server using FTP. Involved in debugging and Tuning teh PL/SQL code, tuning queries, optimization for teh Oracle database. Ensured that weekend data loads, end-of-month & end-of-quarter processing ran successfully and completely, transparent to user community. Managed teh development of a reporting capability of current and historical fund performance prices made available on restricted web sites for viewing by client customers. Defined requirements for a daily feed of fund performance data from teh fund data warehouse, coordinated systems testing, and supported UAT. Gathered requirements and managed teh implementation of a private, secure ftp site allowing authorized print vendors to download files containing sensitive shareholder information. Worked wif client and off shore team to make sure that teh reports and dashboards are delivered on time. Environment: Oracle, SQL Server 2007, MS Access, Visio, Test Director, MS Excel, and MS Visio. Confidential SQL Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for installation, configuration and maintenance of MS SQL Server on various environments. Analyzed business requirements and coordinated wif teh business analyst to develop ETL procedures that confirm to teh enterprise standards while maintaining consistency across all applications and systems. Developed stored procedures and T-SQL code to accomplish various tasks. Created teh different user defined functions in teh application. Prepared Business Requirement Specification that gives teh comprehensive details about teh requirements. Created various complex stored procedures for ETL as well as maintenance of teh database. Developed and modified scripts to create tables, views and executed them using SQL plus. Created SQL loader control files for moving teh data from flat files to staging area tables. Used PL/SQL tables, Ref Cursors to process huge volumes of data and used bulk collect and bulk bind for mass update as performance improvement process and oracle objects including collection, types and creating objects Prepared teh procedures to update teh internal structures to reflect teh newly loaded data. Transformed data from various data sources using OLEDB connection by creating various DTS packages. Worked under teh supervision of DBA and created database objects such as tables, views and sequences Used Different functions such as Data & Time, Conditional, Aggregation functions, Analytic Functions. Environment: Oracle 9i, TOAD, SQL Navigator, UNIX, Informatica power center manager. 