SUMMARY 5 years’ experience as Salesforce.com admin. Certified Salesforce Administrator with experience in customization of Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Custom Fields, Picklist Values, Page Layouts, Workflows, Email Template, Validation rules, Record Types, Roles, Profiles and Forms. Performed Customizations using Apex and Visual force. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential  Salesforce Administrator Responsibilities: Involved in providing user and technical requirements for proposed Mobile and Web - based system solutions Implemented functionality into salesforce via configuration including workflows validation rules Extensive client interaction for requirement gathering and solution walk through. Designed, Implemented and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs and Components to suit to the needs of the application. Used SOQL and SOSL using platform database objects for data manipulation needs of the application Created Use Cases and System flow documentation for developing a product’s user manual. Developed documentation and reported results for various projects. Eliminated errors to prevent data duplication (errors affected up to 30% of database) Maintained better records of activity dat enabled managers/participants to have the ease of reporting. Coordinated with Project Manager, Developers, Users and internal stakeholders to review the process maps. created reports, dashboards, workflow rules and user permissions in Salesforce.comCRM system. Testing new system releases to verify requirements. Performed End to End customizations using all salesforce features. Confidential  Salesforce Administrator Responsibilities: Ensured users have access to the data required. Helped in maintaining the quality of data. Assisted users with building/fixing reports and dashboards Worked with project teams to promote configuration changes in Salesforce.comas well as, make minor configuration changes Created and tested projects to automate/streamline current processes on the team i.e. exception reports and daily reports Built and updated documentation to aid with on boarding new staff Created noledge base articles to store documentation and processes Gathered requirements from businessto translate business processes into Salesforce by building Custom Objects and customizing existing configurations. Provided second level Salesforce support to the wealth instances by troubleshooting Reporting, creating Dashboards, Validation rules, Triggers and other data flow issues. Maintained Salesforceapplications up to date using proper change management procedures. Maintained various email templates for use in Workflows, Auto Assignment Rules, and Auto Response Rules as part of Leads Management. Implemented approval process and workflow automation for website leads dat flows into Salesforce through Web-to-Leads. Responsible for all the activities related to configuring Data Loader, uploading data in CSV files into salesforce.com and checking for the correctness of the data.