SUMMARY Close to 9 years of IT consulting experience which includes 5+ years on force.com platform in various capacities like Developer, Admin, Technical Lead, Sr. Consultant and combined techno functional expertise in Salesforce.com Implementation and Enterprise Integration. Experience working across various functional areas of Salesforce.com like Sales, Service, Marketing, CPQ, QTC and Communities. Functional expertise in sales, service and quote - to-cash processes on Force.com platform. Customizing force.com functionality using Apex controllers, Triggers, async apex and UI using Visualforce and Lightning. Extensive development hands on Lightning Components using SLDS (Salesforce Lightning Design System). Proficient in writing SOSL and SOQL. Hands-on various Salesforce.com APIs (RESTFul, SOAP, Bulk, Wave Analytics and Streaming). Automating complex business processes using declarative features such as workflows, outbound messaging, visual flows, approval processes and lightning process builder. In-depth knowledge of Salesforce.com security model (Roles, Profiles, Permission Sets, Sharing Rules, OWD). Configuring SteelBrick CPQ on salesforce.com and maintenance. Knowledge on Marketing Cloud’s Content Builder, Journey Buider and AMP scripting. Knowledge on leveraging Einstein AI for predictive insights and to accelerate sales process. In-depth knowledge on Salesforce.com Lightning (Connect, App Builder, Component framework). Building interactive Dashboards and Lenses for analytics snapshot of the data in Wave Analytics platform. Creating Datasets and Augmented datasets for combining data from variety of data sources. Changing Data flows using JSON and creating several recipes for augmented datasets. Data migration using various tools like DataLoader, Jitterbit Dataloader and dataloader.io. Data de-dupe using DemandTools Single Table De-Dupe and mass manipulations using Mass Impact. Expertise in design and development of multi-tiered web based applications using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript. Proficient in working wif Eclipse IDE and developer console for writing business logic in Apex programming language and SoapUI for endpoint test in integrations. Integration of versatile applications using third party tools like Jitterbit Harmony, Cast Iron, Informatica, Mulesoft as iPaaS solutions. Deployments using Eclipse IDE, Change Sets and Force.com Migration (ANT) tool. Implementations and developments which follows Agile process, Kanban and Scrum frameworks. Jira, ServiceNow as a platforms and GitHub as code repository. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Chicago, IL Salesforce.com Lead Consultant (Lightning) Responsibilities: Enhancing and maintaining various existing custom lightning components. Developing lightning components using latest SLDS (Salesforce Lightning Design System) framework. Improving the lightning components using lightning data services. Implemented Google Address auto correction for custom lightning components. Developed various custom lightning components for improving business process. Working wif lightning app builder for various configuration needs. Extensive development of batch apex for de-duplication of records. Integration form SF to See Unity Document management system. Implementation of Change Management using a combination of declarative features provided by platform and customization wherever needed. Automating the business process using declarative tools like workflows, lightning process builder and flows. Configuring and rolling out Salesforce mobile for the business. Developing custom components for mobile version and enhancing user experience by changing compact layouts, creating quick actions and interactive flow driven quick actions. Customizing lightning components for Salesforce Mobile for seamless platform adoption for users. Architecting various lightning components for keeping the users close to core product functionality. Salesforce data replication and backup using Informatica iPaas. Integrating Salesforce and CVent using REST API and replaced it wif Informatica Cloud iPaas. Configuring outbound messaging to Informatica Cloud. Architected simple contract management for internal maintenance of data. Constant co-ordination wif end users and IT steering for improving platform adoption. Automating the several gap areas wif minimal development, configuration and maintenance. Maintaining Riva’s salesforce-outlook integration. Creation of several custom objects and wiring them as per business needs. Confidential, Frisco, TX Salesforce.com Lead Consultant Responsibilities: Migrating several integrations wif respect to Salesforce.com from IBM Cast Iron to Jitterbit Harmony to support TLS 1.2 and re-engineering existing integrations using platform best practices. Gathering requirements for new integrations and evaluating various process integration patterns collaborating wif various system teams involving. Developing various complex integrations and transformations using native scripting of Jitterbit iPaaS platform and service orchestration as methodology. Enhancing and fine tuning apex triggers to handle bulk data provisioned by new integrations that’s been built up. Writing batch apex for different bulk data updates wifin salesforce.com org. Customizing Lightning UI wif standard components using App Builder. Design and developing of Apps in Wave Analytics platform for User Audit, SalesOrders provisioned from external systems and POCs for multiple accounts to replace legacy reporting tools. Manipulating dataflows using JSON binding (Selection and Result) to achieve the required analytics snapshot in Wave Analytics. Developing various datasets augmented datasets in Wave Analytics and running integrations from various external data sources using Jitterbit Harmony for near real time updates. Replacing few programmatic batch jobs wif Mass TEMPEffect and de-duplication using Mass Impact of Demand Tools. Replicating Salesforce data to DataMarts using Riptide Reflection for reporting and analytics on legacy tools. Improvising and fine tuning integrations by employing product specific best practices in accordance wif salesforce.com. Monitoring and maintenance of integrations in production on day to day basis. Handling various Salesforce.com service tickets raised by internal stakeholders using ServiceNow as incident management. Environment: Salesforce.com, FinancialForce, Wave Analytics, Jitterbit Harmony, Cast Iron, DemandTools, RipTide Reflection, Eclipse IDE, APTTUS CLM. Confidential, Chicago, IL Sr Salesforce.com Consultant Responsibilities: Configuring and maintenance of Steelbrick CPQ. Configuraion of product bundles and products for CPQ. Developed batch apex for creating balanced GL entries into custom object by consolidating data from various CPQ objects. Creating Datasets, augmented datasets from various sources and loading data using Wave API and built in connectors. Building integrations from salesforce to vantive, Oracle EBS legacy systems to provision the records in standard objects like Account, Contact, Asset and custom objects (License). Developing various operations, transformations in Jitterbit and custom logic using native scripts of the platform. Requirement analysis from stakeholders for integrating Salesforce CPQ wif Workday HCM and Finance. Building complex integrations from SteelBrick billing to Workday Finance using Jitterbit Harmony. Jitterbit transformations and integration customization using custom scripts for various cross platform data provisioning needs. Involved in documenting new features and release planning. Environment: Sales, Services, Steelbrick CPQ, SF Billing, Pardot, Workday, RemedyForce, Wave Analytics, Jitterbit Harmony, Eclipse IDE. Confidential, Long Island City, NY Lead Salesforce.com Consultant Responsibilities: As a consultant, working on multiple projects from both development and integration stand point. Re-Architected and implemented the solution for Lead to Order process for Walgreens project by expanding the out of the box data model. Implementation of SSO (Single Sign On) for user login and Live agent for customer support in service cloud. Architected and implemented Product Kit custom solution across the sales environment. Executed multiple POCs for optimizing sales and quote to cash processes using SteelBrick CPQ. Configuring partner communities (Napili) as per the requirement. Driving implementations and developments in agile process and Jira as a platform. Developed Apex controllers and Visualforce pages to customize the SF environment. Configuring and building partner, customer communities and knowledge base for constant collaboration and self-service respectively. Customizing business process using various available declarative features. Customizing standard Opportunity and Order using Apex and VisualForce for better user experience and extended functionality. Developed Dashboards, Data Sets and Lenses out of Salesforce.com data in Wave Analytics as per management requirements. Carrying out and overseeing deployments using both change sets and Eclipse IDE. Designed and deployed visual workflows, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic. Integrating salesforce.com wif Card Validation Services using RESTFul web services. Integrating fulfillment system wif Salesforce.com using web services. Integrated MS SQL Server using Jitterbit to pump the subscriber data downstream from Salesforce. Integrating Net Suite wif external vendors and WH management systems provisioning EDIs using Jitterbit. Integrating Magento and Net Suite for product and price sync using Jitterbit Harmony. Confidential, Waltham, MA Salesforce.com Developer/Admin Responsibilities: Handling production issues as part of hyper care. Writing and optimizing Apex code and triggers. And replacing standard pages wif visualforce for UI needs. Used Data Loader for data migration. Created various Custom Objects, Tabs, validation rules on the objects and tabs, Components and Visual Force Pages. Maintained processes of CSV import file updates for customer records into Accounts, Contacts using Data Loader and Import Wizard. Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to provide shared access among different users. Added, configured workflow rules, time triggered workflows, email templates to automate business process. Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages. Developed and configured various Report, Dashboards and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization Confidential Salesforce.com Developer/Admin Responsibilities: Worked as enhancement team member and performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization. Customizing various standard objects like Lead, Account, Contact, Opportunity of SalesForce.com. Worked wifSOQL&SOSLqueries wifGovernor Limitationsin Apex classes and triggers. Designed and developed Apex Classes, Extensions, Visualforce Pages and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application using Eclipse IDE. Deploying changes to production using Eclipse IDE. Involved in data mapping and migration of data from legacy Siebel systems to SalesForce.com Objects and fields using various other tools. Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com subjects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files. Confidential Salesforce.com Developer/Admin Responsibilities: Worked on various SalesForce.com Standard Objects includingAccounts, Contacts, Reports, Dashboards, EventsandTasks. Developed variousCustom Objects, Tabs, Validation rules, Components. Using Force.com developer toolkit to develop custom business logic using apex controllers, triggers and visualforce pages. Created variousProfiles,Roles,Page LayoutsandthePermissionsbased on the Organization hierarchy requirements. Designed and deployedCustom tabs,Validation rules,Approval Processesand Auto-Responsefor automating business logic. CreatedWorkflow rulesand defined relatedtasks,email alerts,andfield updates. Implementedpick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validationandformula fieldsto the custom objects. Developed severalcustom reports&dashboardsto better assist managers and report folder to provide report accessibility to appropriate personnel. Confidential SAP Java Webdynpro Developer Responsibilities: Creation of Development Components DC's of type WebDynpro Java using Adaptive RFC model by calling BAPIs from SAP ECC System using. Created custom WebDynpro applications as per the requirements as part of ESS&MSS. Created ESS screens in the portal according to the client’s requirements. Enhanced various ESS standard screens like Family Dependents, Address, Personal Information Iviews. Creation of Iviews, Pages, Worksets, Roles, Users, Groups and Personalization. Creating the Portal Content to Integrate the WebDynpro Applications in Portal.