SUMMARY Overall 7+ years of professional experience in IT industry with 3+ years of experience as a Service - Now suite developer and administrator. Direct hands on experience on various IT Services of Service-Now tool like Service Catalog Requests, Asset Management, Configuration Management, Service-Now Administration, Incident and Problem Management, Knowledge Management, Reporting, Gauges, Integration with Web Services. Experience in configuring and customizing all aspects of Service-now like UI actions, UI policy, Business rules, Data policies, Client scripts. Experience with complex integrations within teh ITSM environment such as ServiceNow -Siebel, Service Now - Web service integration with third party applications Experience in enhancing teh Service-Now functionality by customized Java Script code to support teh new business needs. Worked on REST API as a third-party application for Integration. Good noledge of CMDB and Asset Management Services: Business Services and Configuration item relationships. Created complex transform scripts in transforming teh data into teh SNOW database. Expertise on creation of workflows for Service Catalog items in Service-Now. Strong skill set in teh Service Now suite development including SOAP/RESTFUL integration, Discovery, Workflow, and CMDB. Service-Now Administration and Production support including maintenance of lower life cycle instances. Experience on integrating ServiceNow with external application Configured Applications using Service-Now tool used in ITIL Management. Strong understanding official V3. Deep functional and technical noledge of teh Service Now platform as well as experience delivering medium to large-scale Service Now implementations. Deployment Automation and Software delivery using Shell scripting with tools like DSM and ITCM Setting up Configuration Management from scratch defining teh CI classes and their relationships. Functional noledge and implementation experience of ITSM frameworks. Working experience of various phases of SDLC such as Requirement Analysis, Design, Code Construction and Test. Hands on experience in web development using HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, Jelly and CSS. TECHNICAL SKILLS ITSM Tools: ITSM Suite, Service Now Languages: C, C++, Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, SQL Databases: Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL Application Servers: IIS, Apache, Tomcat, WebLogic Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Mac OS Frameworks: JSP, Servlets, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JNDI, JMS PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, KANSAS CITY, KS ServiceNow Developer/admin Responsibilities: Created teh new Applications and Modules, custom tables in ServiceNow. Created, monitored, modified, and publish service catalog workflows with approvals. Created both inbound Scripted Web Services and inbound Email Actions to create incidents from Emails. Creating database views to pull teh Reports on variables which are being used by catalog items. Involved in LDAP integration with ServiceNow for obtaining users and groups. Implemented CMDB Bi-directional Web Services integration. Created Data Sources from various external applications, scripts to parse incoming data and transform into Service-Now. Adjusted ServiceNow Import sets and transform maps accordingly to ensure data entering ServiceNow tables matched teh company outlined requirements. Working with client and functional requirements within ServiceNow. Design and implement new functionality using Business Rules, UI Policies, Access Control Lists, Service Catalog, Request Workflow Design and Configuration Created various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management, Governance risk and Compliance, HR Service management, Service Requests and SLA's. Worked on Orchestration to automate teh frequently used service requests. Used Jelly Scripting for creating UI Pages and UI Macros Developed front-end UI pages and necessary backend classes to support data access and user authorization. Created notifications based on user requirements and also configured inbound email actions to create incidents or requests Designed teh layout, CSS, dynamic content for teh End User Self-Service Portal design. Worked on developing teh Employee Self Service Portal (ESS) using Content Management. Designed many email templates by using html and used them in notifications. Experienced on upgrading ServiceNow instance from Jakarta to Kingston. Used Angular JS to integrateServiceNowwith internal/external systems and tools Worked with windows team, network team and Asset team in order to check for teh data collected through discovery is accurate. Created Buttons and context menus both on form and lists using UI actions. Written script includes and invoked them in business rules and client scripts. Imported many CI's using import set tables. Imported Active Directory to ServiceNow using data sources. Created data sources and loaded teh ServiceNow Tables with different data formats. Created Transform maps both automatic field mapping and scripting. Also worked on Asset Management and loaded teh data into it. Worked on teh integration of ServiceNow with Siebel, integrated Service Catalog and Incident module. Used JMS integration to fulfill dis requirement, worked on Scheduled Jobs and Mid Server Script Includes to fulfill teh requirements. Environment: ServiceNow (Jakartha/Kingston), JavaScript, Incident Management, HR Service Management, Change Management, Governance Risk and Compliance, CMDB, XML, HTML, Windows. Confidential, Silicon Valley, California ServiceNow Developer/admin Responsibilities: Implementation of teh ITIL processes like Configuration management and Service Catalog in Geneva instance. Customized workflows for approvals and associated tasks. Develop and manage application code, user interface, and third-party integration components. Configuration of Email Notification and Alerts to notify users about specific activities in teh system. Developed UI Appearance for Service Catalog Requests. Responsible for maintaining and growing data held within ServiceNow such as our users, locations, configuration items, service catalog items. Configured Service Level Agreements to define certain levels of service from both internal and external providers. Writing Business Rules, Client scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions to customize teh instance as per Business needs. Creation ofOrchestrationworkflow to add and Remove User to Active Directory Group. PerformedOrchestrationto detect Installed applications and open ports in a System Worked with dynamic HTML components AJAX, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and CSS. Created reports, workflows, data imports for services. Created complexPerformanceAnalyticswidgets, KPIs and Dashboard for efficient reporting of call center data. Worked on creating users, roles, groups and Configured LDAP Server and LDAP Listener for updating teh user and group table record. Create, monitor, modify, and publish service catalog workflows with approvals. Create and use update sets to move customizations between instances. Created teh UI pages to use them in catalog items implemented using UI scripts Worked on UI Pages, UI Macro, Scheduled Jobs, Script Includes and Events. Creating/Updating teh service catalogs or catalog items into teh Employee self-service portal (ESS portal). Backed up required update sets during teh time of cloning and reapplied again after cloning and worked on them. Customizing teh portal web wages using AngularJS frameworks. Build KPI reports and dashboards inServiceNowPerformanceAnalytics tool for various business groups Using Import Sets for data loading from external file or database to teh ServiceNow. Tested, analyzed, collaborated and assisted with translating business requirements into technical requirements to ensure a smooth implementation of applications or modules. Actively involved in Scrum meetings to get clarification on teh requirements. Experience in implementing end-to-end service catalog and configuration management. Worked on many ACE reports and findings recommended by SNOW to improve performance of teh instance. Redesigned and developed generic workflows. Designed and developed Surveys and Survey Conditions. Upgraded ServiceNow and Exported services from Helsinki to Istanbul. Used transform maps to get data of teh custom tables from Helsinki to Istanbul. Environment: ServiceNow (Helsinki/Istanbul), Incident Management, Change Management, CMDB, JavaScript, XML, HTML, Webservices, Windows. Confidential, Charlotte, NC Service Now Developer /Admin Responsibilities: Discussing teh business requirements with clients and documenting them into process requests. A Service Now expert with experience on implementing end-to-end Service Catalog, Incident Management, Configuration & Asset Management, Change Management and Release Management with Knowledge of Content management Created many standard workflows which are being re-used and propagated and handled many custom events. Responsible for teh Service Nowtool administration module and creation of new Users, Groups, Roles, IT Services, Application, Business Services, Routing rules and Blackout Freeze rules. Worked on ServiceNow versions Fuji and Geneva. Created many scripts which includes, Business rules (server-side code) and also modified OOB Worked extensively on LDAP integrations. Very good understanding of Integration with these varieties of protocols: SOAP, JDBC, and ODBC. Good noledge on Single Sign on and event-based integrations. Setting up Configuration Management from scratch defining teh CI classes and their relationships. Created complex transform scripts in transforming teh data into teh SNOW database. Created generalized framework for repeating problems and incidents. Design and Implementation of service requests through service catalogue in service now. Analyzed problems and create new solutions and new techniques. Developed SLA and reporting. Defining teh process for each service request. Creating scheduled tasks, monitoring teh ticket queues and generating statistics. Working noledge of Knowledge articles, incidents, CMDB and dictionaries. Creating catalogue items, workflows, inbound emails actions and update sets for service requests. Check teh change management document and verify teh changes. Assist in Release Management during product and patch releases. Followed up with clients and customers on process requests, special requirements. Environment: ServiceNow (Fuji/Geneva), CMDB, JavaScript, XML, HTML, Webservices, Windows. Confidential UI Developer Responsibilities: Worked in Agile and Scrum development environments. Interacted with business system analyst to understand teh technical requirements of teh project. Involved in developing teh UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Involved in developing test plan and procedures. Migrating legacy applications to multi-tiered web applications. Developed web pages with functionalities like login, register, forget password, Email, Filters using JavaScript, jQuery and HTML. Used JavaScript to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time in web pages to get user input and requests. Coded JavaScript for page functionality and Pop up Screens and used HTML to make dropdown menus on web pages and display part of a web page upon user request. Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures. Testing browser compatibility and addressing browser compatibility issues. Environment: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Java, jQuery, SQL, PL/SQL. Confidential UI Developer Responsibilities: Developed wireframes into pixel perfect HTML views. Involved in team discussions when implementing new features in teh project. Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML. Implemented page designs in standard-complaint dynamic HTML and CSS. Developed teh Front-End User Interface using HTML, JavaScript and CSS. Created navigation lists using list elements in HTML. Good noledge of debugging JavaScript and html code with Firefox Firebug and Google chrome JavaScript debugger. Created form validations with JavaScript. Provided insight on HTML and CSS standards. Environment: HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, UML. 