SUMMARY: 7 plus years of experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) implementations in Client/Server applications. Working experience with al, Financial, Communications & Health Sectors. Experience in design and developing of applications using .NET Technologies like C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0, MVC 2.0/3.0/4.0/5.0/6.0, WCF, Web services, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap. Experience in development of responsive web applications using KnockoutJS and AngularJS. Experience in databases SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 and Oracle10g/11g. Extensive data manipulation experience using SQL / PLSQL /T - SQL. Proven Experience with different reporting tools like SSRS, Crystal Reports, Business Objects 4.0. Experience on IIS 5.1/6.0/7.0. Experience in working Microsoft Visual Studio /2008/2010/2012/2013 environment. Experience in data accessing using Data Adapter, Data Reader and LINQ to Entity using Entity Framework. Involved in the Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Database Design, Conceptual Design, Detail Design, Requirement gathering, Documentation and Testing. Experience in maintenance of applications in Client/Server, and Web Environment Experience in Team Foundation Server (TFS) and Visual Source Safe (VSS). Ability to rapidly absorb new concepts and apply them effectively, to work independently and as a part of a team with an ability to deliver within short deadlines. Experienced with Agile SCRUM methodology used for new product development. Excellent verbal, written communication and presentation skills, problem solving and conflict resolution skills, and detail oriented. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Languages: C#.NET, HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, C/C++, VB, VB.NET, JavaScript, VBScript, JQuery, ASP, SQL, PL/SQL, TSQL. .NET Technologies:ASP.NET, ADO.NET, MVC 2.0/3.0/4.0/5.0/6.0, Windows Services, Win Forms, Web Services, WCF, REST Web API, WPF, AJAX. Development Environment: Visual Studio .NET 2003/2005/2008/2010/2012/2013, Visual Basic 6.0, Bootstrap, KnockoutJS, AngularJS, RequireJs. Web Servers: IIS 5.1/ 6.0/7.0/8.0/8.5 RDMS/Server: SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2010/2012, Oracle 10g/11g, MS-Access. ETL Tools: SSIS, Data Stage. Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports/ Business Objects, SSRS Operating System: UNIX, Windows 95/98/2000/2003/2008/ NT/ XP/Vista/7, MS-DOS. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, DC .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle like Application Design, Development, Debugging and testing the applications. Followed MVC architecture and used MVC 5.0 for the application development. Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, components, factory and service resources, routings and events. Expertise in DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS. Involved in developing the Business Layer in C#.NET, which are used in developing the whole Application. Involved in developing forms, applications, workflows and created Custom Lists within SharePoint 2010/2013 using InfoPath and SharePoint designer. Proficient in creating and deploying forms using InfoPath and created workflows. Developed web applications to 508 Compliance and tested using JAWS. Followed responsive design approach using Bootstrap, HTML, HTML5 and CSS 3 in designing the UI to be compatible in multiple browsers and resolutions. Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the internal applications. Created/consumed REST Web API's and used WCF to communicate with remote business objects to implement Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). Used Entity framework as Data access layer. Used LINQ to SQL and LINQ to Objectsfor retrieving the data efficiently. Experienced working in Agile Software, and Test Driven Development (TDD), conducting Code/Test Case review meetings, participated in daily SCRUM meetings. Implemented data access and business logic to meet client requirement. Created Data Access Layers to establish database connectivity and data manipulation. Used Resharper to maintain coding standards Used SQL Server 2010 as backend database. Created and used complex store procedures, Views where ever it is required. Modified inherited code and SQL scripts for better results. Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) to maintain the various versions of code. Worked on Unit test cases and performed unit testing. Worked closely with Quality Analysts to fix bugs during Quality Assurance and User Acceptance Testing. Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, C#.NET, ASP.NET, MVC 5.0/6.0, AJAX, HTML, HTML 5, CSS, CSS 3, JQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Resharper, SQL SERVER 2008/2010, IIS7.0, Visual Studio 2012/2013, Microsoft Enterprise Library, TFS. Confidential, Dover, NH  .Net Developer Responsibilities: Played the role of Application Developer, displaying excellent technical skills in delivering objects in high level of quality and meeting high pressure deadlines. Worked in fast paced Agile Methodology, involving in task completion, user stories, iteration passing through a full development cycle. Developed distributed web applications with ASP.Net MVC 4.0/5.0, 3 tier and N-tier architecture. Developed Models, controllers, views, partial views and generating the display templates with Razor view engine in .Net framework 4.5 using ASP.Net MVC 4.0/5.0, C#.Net, AJAX, JQuery, Knockout Js, JSON, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS. Used Entity framework Code First to implement data access layer. LINQ to SQL and LINQ to Objects for DML operations. Created/consumed REST Web API's to integrate share data across client applications with central core application. Used libraries Autofac for dependency injection, AutoMapper to mapping the objects, Microsoft Enterprise Library for error Logging. Used Bamboo continuous integration build server and JIRA for issue/task tracking. Written different SQL Stored procedures to manipulate the data and retrieve the complex data for reporting. Developed reports using SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services) for the business requirement. Used SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) to Import/Export data from various data sources. Involved in designing, redesigning the database and migrating the data from legacy to new normalized system using SQL SEVER 2008. Used SVN Tortoise as a source control. Involved in the manual Performance Testing, Unit Testing and System Testing and Integration Testing of the application. Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, C#.NET, ASP.NET, MVC 4.0/5.0, AJAX, HTML, HTML 5, CSS, CSS 3, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, KnockoutJS, Resharper, SQL SERVER 2008, IIS7.0, Visual Studio 2012/2013, JIRA, Bamboo, Microsoft Enterprise Library, Autofac, AutoMapper, SVN Tortoise. Confidential, Ohio  .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in requirements gathering, coordinating with India team, project development managers and client program coordinators. Developed application with Razor view engine using ASP.NET MVC 4.0 architecture. Created User controls, Custom controls and Partial Views for reusability and were used extensively based upon the requirement. Used Entity framework Code First to implement data access layer. LINQ to SQL and LINQ to Objects for DML operations. Responsible for developing Business Logic classes using C#.NET. Used JQuery, Bootstrap as client side scripting and used along with AJAX for making asynchronous calls. Created/consumed REST Web API's and WCF Services to share data across other remote applications to implement SOA. Written different SQL Stored procedures to manipulate the data and retrieve the complex data for reporting. Developed reports using SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services) for the business requirement. Used SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) to Import/Export data from various data sources. Involved in Performance tuning and query optimization for Stored Procedures. Involved in designing, redesigning the database and migrating the data from legacy to new normalized system using SQL SEVER 2008, Oracle 11g. Involved in support and maintenance of the applications. Involved in the manual Performance Testing, Unit Testing and System Testing and Integration Testing of the application. Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, C#.NET, ASP.NET, MVC 3.0/4.0, AJAX, HTML, HTML 5, CSS, CSS 3, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, KnockoutJS, SQL SERVER 2008, Oracle 11g, IIS7.0, Visual Studio 2010/2012 Confidential, Denver, CO  .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in all the phases of SDLC: project planning, analysis, design, documentation, development, implementation, and support of software applications. Extensively used ASP.NET Master Pages, Web Server controls like Grid View, Repeater for displaying in the form of reports. Created User controls and Custom controls for reusing in the application. Used Validation controls, JavaScript, JQuery for validating the information provided by the user at the client and server side. Implemented AJAX for the partial page post-backs. Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to control the style and layout of multiple Web pages all at one place. Developed new modules with ASP.NET MVC 3.0 architecture Created/consumed REST Web API's and used WCF to communicate with remote business objects to implement Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). Involved in developing the Business Layer in C#.NET, which are used in developing the whole Application. Used Entity framework as Data access layer. Used LINQ to SQL and LINQ to Objectsfor retrieving the data efficiently. Used SQL Server 2008 as backend database. Created and used complex store procedures, Views where ever it is required. Developed Materialized Views to hold the data from the views for reports. Extensively used Report Wizard, Report Builder and Report Manager for developing reports and deploying reports in SSRS. Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) to maintain the various versions of code. Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, C#.NET, ASP.NET 4.0, MVC 3.0, AJAX, WCF, CSS, LINQ, JavaScript, SQL SERVER (2008/2005), IIS7.0, Visual Studio 2010 Confidential, TX  .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved the study of the existing process and gathering requirements. Used agile development methodology. Worked on Object Oriented Analysis and Design. Developed ASP.Net web pages using C#. Involved in analyzing the MVC in the process of moving the new development architecture. Involved in designing complete database objects like Tables, Views, Stored Procedures and Indexes using SQL server 2008. Worked on Reusable software components Design and Development. Developed .Net assemblies using C# (Data access and Business Logic). Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) to manage changes to the source code. Handled Run Time Errors & Design Time Errors by implementing appropriate custom Error Handlers. Involved in writing Java script functions. Created WCF Services to share data across other Remote Application. Consumed External Web Services. Used LINQ in data access layer. Created SSIS for data transformation process. Developed reports for both Ad-Hoc and scheduled runs. Used AJAX extensively with JavaScript and XML. Developed custom reports using SSRS. Involved in unit testing, integration testing, bug fixing and production support. Environment: .NET Framework 3.5/4.0, C#.NET, ASP.NET 3.5/4.0, MVC 2.0, AJAX, WCF, CSS, LINQ, JavaScript, SQL SERVER (2008/2005), IIS 7.0, Visual Studio 2008/2010 Confidential, Southfield, MI  .Net Developer Responsibilities: Participated in Requirement Analysis study and Involved in requirements gathering. Worked with functional teams to define and implement migration strategies fromlegacy systemsto new architecture and technologies. Used simplified client and server side validation, better session management and powerful data access management using ASP.NET. Design and development of multiple system integration points using .net web services (written in C#) in combination with AJAX style web development. Generated reports from the extracted data using SSRS. Developed the Data Access Layer (ADO.NET) using C# 3.5 to do all the database related operations like apply changes of the strongly typed dataset, fill strongly typed dataset and made use of data controls Data Grid, Data List and Repeater Controls throughout the application to display data in a customized format in the ASP.NET web pages. Developed different User controls which inputs the data and display the data for the web Applications using ASP.NET 3.5. Extensively used XSLT for transforming the data and XML in Business Layer. Created, modified and used Stored Procedures, Views, and Functions in SQL Server 2005. Environment: .NET Framework 3.5,VisualStudio 2008, ASP.NET 3.5,C#.NET, ADO.NET, AJAX, Microsoft IIS 6.0, XML, Visual SourceSafe, JavaScript, Web-Services, SQL SERVER 2005. Confidential  Software Engineer  Responsibilities: Involved in collecting and analyzing the business requirements from the customers. Responsible for developing all the front-end screens and the back end database queries for retrieving data and NET Framework 2.0. Developed the system front end using C#, ASP.NET 2.0 and HTML and backend using SQL server 2005 as the backend database, Win forms. Designed the migration pattern from existing ASP/VB application to ASP.NET/C# Win Forms and .Net Framework 1.1 to NET Framework 2.0. Used ADO.NET for retrieving data from backend database SQL Server 2005. Implemented and deployed XML Web Services (SOAP) using C#.NET. Created dynamic GUIs with .Net web controls and data bound web forms. Implemented extreme programming by using fast paced Object Oriented Methodologies, involving in task completion, user stories, and iterations. Worked on UI using AJAX for making smaller, faster and user-friendly web-page application. Developed Server side programming using C#.NET, ASP.NET 2.0 on .NET architecture. Implemented AJAX in order to provide pleasant client side experience. Designed XML Schemas and developed XSL and XML gateway. Extensively used XSLT language to transform from XML document into HTML web page. Reports are generated using Crystal Report. Investigated bugs and interacted with developers to resolve technical issues. Developed testing report, Stored Procedures using SQL Server 2005 and SQL scripts, and DTS packages and Data Modeling. Used Microsoft Visual Source Safe (VSS) for all the source code maintenance needs. Environment: Visual Studio.Net 2005, ASP.NET 2.0, C#, JavaScript, HTML, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2005, XML, XSL, XSLT, Web Service, Crystal Reports 9.0, CSS, IIS6.0, unit testing, NET Framework 2.0. Confidential  Software Trainee Responsibilities: Involved in full life-cycle of the project from requirements gathering to transition usingAgileMethodology. Implemented and extensively used theObject Oriented programmingconcepts inC#andASP. Net 3.0. Developed Custom Exception Class for handling the Exceptions rose in Web Services in Web and Win Forms. Created Web Services used for the application as well as for some other departments to Reusable application components. Developed web pages and validated these pages using ASP.NET and responsible for designing, developing and testing the EMA Application using ASP.NET. Extensively used Master Pages, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) in ASP.NET to achieve consistent, look and feel for the web site. Implemented Java Scripts for client-side validation controls. UsedASP.NETUser Controlsto create wizard steps for submitting and modifying events and evaluation forms. ImplementedData access layerusingADO.NETto connect and retrieve or manipulate database information. Developed manyT-SQLqueries to fetch data as per the business requirements with proper tuning techniques. Developed various stored procedures for the data retrieval from the database and generation of different types of reports usingSQL reporting services (SSRS). UsedVisual Source Safefor version control of the source code and involved inunit testing,integration testinganddeploymentof the application Environment: C#, ASP.NET 2.0, XML, XSL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, SQL Server 2000/2005, UML, Visual Studio.NET 2005, IIS5.0 