SUMMARY Highly motivated and detail - oriented Business System Analyst and Scrum Master with 8+ years of experience working with diverse teams in BF’s (Banking, Finance) and E-Commerce domain. Worked with many cross functional teams gained experience, hardworking and an optimistic Business Analyst with proven leadership skills and proficiency in gathering user requirements and converting them into system specifications, throughout the software development life cycle projects and possess a strong analytical mind and excellent communication skills along with the desire to continuously improve, learn and excel. Structured, goal-oriented and worked on multiple projects from initiation to the completion. Experienced with various SDLC methodologies like Waterfall, Agile, Hybrid where me Worked closely with the SME’s, and staff to understand the requirements and specifications for new applications as well as enhancements. Acted as an Alison between the business and the technical team in the areas of Software Design and Development Life Cycle to understand the structure, policies, and operations of an organization. Experienced in analyzing and preparing artifacts like Business Requirement Document (BRD), Functional Requirement Document (FRD), Software Requirement Specification (SRS), Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM). Being a process-oriented Business Analyst me facilitated JAD sessions and also gatheird requirements using various elicitation techniques like brainstorming, document analysis, interview session with key stakeholders. Expertise in performing GAP Analysis, Cost Benefit Analysis, SWOT Analysis, Root Cause Analysis, Document Analysis Participated in writing Test plans and reviewed and helped testing team in developing test cases. Extensive experience on the Microsoft Suite: MS Power point, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Access and Share point. Proficient in SOA implementation, with a good noledge of webservices (SOAP & REST), web methods (GET PUT POST DELETE ), XML, WSDL, WADL, UDDI. Extensive implementation noledge of Data warehousing, Data Structures, Schemas, Data Marts and OLAP Operations such as Roll-Up, Drill-Down, Slice, Dice and Pivot. Involved in creating data flow diagrams, Data Mapping from Source-> stage and Stage-> Target mapping documents indicating the entities, attributes, fields, transformations required and business rules to be applied. Handled multiple change requests by performing Impact analysis during the implementation phase; submitted business case documents to Change Control Board (CCB). Collaborated with testers to write Test Cases and constantly updated the RTM with the Test Cases and aligned the to the Used Cases. Performed Functional Testing collaborated to perform Regression and Load Testing. Set up the environment for UAT and facilitated UAT Sessions. Certified Scrum Master and facilitated scrum ceremonies- Daily Scrum, Sprint Planning, Review and Retrospective meetings. Successfully facilitated Retrospective meeting and used various interactive techniques like Silent Writing, Sailboat, Sad-Mad-Glad, Lego Retrospective and prepared action items to eliminate impediments. Used Burn up/Burn down charts to track the team’s progress. Assisted Product Owner in Grooming Product Backlog using prioritization techniques such as KANO and MOSCOW and ensured that the user stories follow INVEST and SMART criteria Facilitated the development of Acceptance Criteria for User Stories and ensured that the user stories adhere to Gherkins format. Well versed with various estimation techniques like Planning Poker, T-Shirt Sizing in picking Product Backlog Items, to commit within in the sprint. Conducted Release Planning meetings and facilitate business analysis activities alongside the Architect Designer. Understanding of Test-Driven Development (TDD), Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and Acceptance Test Driven Development (ATDD). Closely worked with the compliance team and involved with various compliances such as Dodd Frank, SOX, BSA, SAR, CTR, U.S Patriot Act, FINRA. Proficient in various Retirement accounts like IRA, 401(k), Roth IRA, Roth 401(K). me am a team player, will always rate my team’s success over my personal achievements and will meet the project deadlines and targets. Creative and Innovative thinker, with excellent communication skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Methodologies: Agile, Hybrid and Waterfall (Traditional) Frameworks: SAFE, Scrum, ATDD, TDD, FDD, Kanban, XP Diagramming Tools: MS Visio, Balsamiq Prototyping Tools: Balsamiq, Adobe XD, Macaw, Axure, iRise, Blueprint Modelling tools: UML Designer - Enterprise Architect, MS Visio, Plant UML BI Tools: Tableau, Power BI, Cognos Agile Tools: Atlassian JIRA, Rally, VersionOne PM Software: MS Project, Primavera, Concept Draw Languages: VB, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, TSQL. .Net Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, Web Services,, SOAP, RESTfull, AJAX, JSON, Java, asp.net Testing Tools: HP QC, Postman, Selenium, SOAP UI, TFS, Cucumber Protocols: HTTP, FTP, SMTP, SOAP Databases: SQL Server 2008 & 2012, Oracle, MySQL, MS Access, DB 2 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential | New York Business System Analyst/ Scrum Master Responsibilities: Ensured that the application is compatible with compliant with regulations involved with various accounts such as IRA, 401(K), Roth IRA and Roth 401(K). Designing Proof of Concept (POC) to identify baseline, adverse, and serve scenarios. Performed PI Planning and participated in Scrum of Scrum meetings to ensure that the mapped dependencies are sorted. Created product development process using Scrumban (Scrum+Kanban) and developed user stories based on the requirements for the workflow of the system to enable continuous delivery model. Facilitated, Coached and trained all the SAFE ceremonies like Daily stand-up, Iteration planning, Program Backlog Grooming, Iteration review and Iteration retrospective. Assisted the business in redesigning the process and created a Business Process Modelling Notation (BPMN), documented the business process flows through solving the complex business problems the organization and teams on values and principles of Agile and Scrum. Played a pivotal role in setting up Acceptance Criteria, creating test plans, recording test result for all the user stories. Helped in improving process efficiency and process enhancements through retrospective meetings. Ensured that the user stories adhere to INVEST criteria. Assisted the product owner in prioritizing the backlog item using WSJF technique. Managed the lifecycle of code development, from planning of iterations to deployment. Helped team to work through quality and technical debt by bringing in practices like Acceptance Test Driven Development (ATDD). Used Java Script, HTML, and CSS for developing Web Pages and in creating web methods for web service. me was mostly involved in Web Application Development part. Communicated with other management, engineers, product managers and support specialists on various issues. Track and communicate team velocity and sprint/release progress. Created Release Planning for iterations by calculating the Estimated Velocity continuously. Identified internal and external Web Services and performed Webservice Testing using SOAP UI. Conducted Synchronous Orchestration to ensure that the proposal is generated. Assisted in identification of API’s and tested the API’s by creating test suites with stub requests and responses in SOAP UI and validated on various assertions. Collaborated with the product owner in converting Epics into User Stories as well as tasks and worked closely with Product Owner for maintaining Artifacts Such as Product Backlog, Spring Backlog, Sprint and Release Burnup/Burndown charts. Conducted Planning Poker to help team estimate story points for the user stories during the Sprint Planning. Lead and provide technical assistance and training in using JIRA, Confluence and other tools as and when required. Created product development process using Scrum, defined Definition of Done(DOD) criteria for the workflow of the system to enable Continuous Delivery model. Extensively implemented the best use of Jira tool’s features in keeping the track of User Stories, Tasks and progress of the work through tracking the Velocity and Capacity of the team also. Constantly monitored Burn Down and Burn up Charts for evaluation. Collaborated with the testers while performing Functional, Regression, Load testing to check the functionality of the application. Environment: SAFE, Office 365, Microsoft Suite, AJAX, Soap UI, JAVA, Oracle 11g, SQL, Micro strategy, JIRA,, GitHub, Jenkins. Confidential, Boston, Massachusetts Business System Analyst/ Scrum Master Responsibilities: Facilitatingdaily scrum meetings, enforcing timeboxesand responding to the requirements, tracking baseline, sprint planning and sprint retrospective. Provide visibility to teamimpediments/risksand help eliminate them. Generated reports for the analysis and forecast with the help of XSL-FO Reports. Drafted the Definition of Done(DOD) and the Acceptance Criteria for the well-defined low-level functional and non-functional requirement specifications. Managed both onshore and offshore teams working on different time zones. Coordinated with the project management tool - JIRA. Performed Data Mapping using EXCEL, to identify and standardize the data from various distributed systems. Performed Extract, Transform and Load(ETL) operations to perform data cleansing and standardization for reporting. Performed various OLAP operations such as Slicing Dicing, Roll-up, Drilldown and defined the relation between Fact tables and the Dimension Tables. Tracking team’s progress and milestones to make sure they are highly visible to the product owner/stakeholders. Resolved conflicts within the teams and kept the team motivated towards the end goal. Training new team members in Agile Principles, Scrum process and helping them transition from waterfall to agile methodology and ffacilitated the ceremonies and implement time boxes during sprint execution Used JIRA to document and visualize stories, tasks and measure performance through burn down charts/velocity charts. Worked with the Development team to integrate the SOA architecture to support the RESTful Web Services. Identified API’s and performed API testing using POSTMAN. Facilitated all Scrum ceremonies and involved in Product Backlog Grooming. Conducted White Board Sessions to train Scrum Development Team about Scrum Ceremonies. Facilitated team Agile Games to help build a better collaborative environment within the scrum team. Made sure user stories are according to SMART criteria. Played a pivotal role in setting up User Acceptance Criteria for user stories to be accepted by the business. Assisted in prioritizing the backlog item using MOSCOW technique. Worked with Product Owner on Artifacts Such as Product Backlog, Spring Backlog, Sprint and Release Burn down. Built a trustworthy and safe environment where problems can be raised without fear of blame, retribution, or being judged, with an emphasis of healing and problem solving. Environment: Hybrid, MS suite, IBM rational doors, MS Visio, MS Project, Oracle 11g UML, SQL Server, AJAX, .Net, HTML, Java script, CSS, Restful, Balsamic, GitHub. Confidential | Troy, Michigan Business System Analyst/ Scrum Master Responsibilities: Coordinated with the Product owner in prioritizing the user stories in the product backlog, facilitated the daily scrum meeting, sprint plan & review meetings at the beginning and end of each sprint. Generated Sprint Burn down chart and Burn Up Charts to track the status of each sprint cycle for that release. Facilitated training sessions for the scrum team to better estimate the efforts and time required to finish a user story. Assisted the product owner in breaking down Features into User Stories. Reported Defects in the SharePoint Defect Log, assisted in implementing Web Orchestration and applied As-Is To-Be process models. XML Loan Data Capture, Comparison and Analysis using Beyond Compare software. Coordinated with Product owner to create WBS, manage schedules, deadlines, resources and the project tasks using JIRA. Calculated the Velocity, Capacity, obtained the Focus factor and predicted the Forecast for the next sprints. Facilitated, coached and guided the teams on values and principles of agile and scrum. Conducted scrum games to help build a better collaborative environment within the scrum team. Played a crucial role in setting up User Acceptance Criteria for both functional as well as technical user stories Resolved various impediments hindering the flow of the project with the help of the Product Owner for improving the velocity of the project. Environment: Agile Scrum, MS Suite, JIRA, Soap UI, SOA, SharePoint, SQL, HTML, CSS, Selenium. Confidential Business System Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for creating and reviewing business requirements, functional specifications, project schedules, documentation and test plans related to commercial lending Assisted with product evaluation, product customization, and system integration. Conducted GAP analysis around the identification of business rules, business and system process flows, user administration, requirements, and assumptions Designed and developed Use Cases, Use Case Diagrams and Activity Diagrams using UML Supported testing, Test Cases in HP Quality Center that would test various Test scenarios Authored business requirements document with the business users. Extracted, discussed, and refined business requirements from business users and team members. Coordinated project and ensured compliance with estimated costs and timelines. Designed Engineering database to in corporate into the Liberty Database for tracking and reporting purposes from an Engineering effort. Involved in documentation during various phases of development life cycle. Managed Low Level Design meetings with Engineering, Architect, and all stakeholders to ensure QoS as well as the architectural network variables were implemented ensuring clean transitions. Coordinated activities between business unit and technical staff, developed new methods, policies, and procedures to meet the business needs, as well as acted as a primary trainer in educating the business units, related to business applications. Performed UAT on business requirements, technical specifications, and product noledge. Environment: Oracle, JAVA, MS Excel, MS Access, HP Quality Center, MS Visio, MS Project. Confidential Business Analyst Responsibilities: Gatheird and analyzed the requirements and provided high level estimates during analysis phase for the enhancement of the Fraud detection application. Conducted Gap Analysis to access the strengths and weakness for the proposed project and documented the various components. Was also involved in SWOT analysis, IMPACT analysis, Cost benefit analysis. Worked on many Change requests from stakeholders and accommodated them successfully. Conducted various requirement gathering sessions by using various Elicitation Techniques such as Brain Storming, Interviews, Focus Group. Designed and developed UML Diagrams including use cases, activity and sequence diagrams using Visio Acted as a point of contact for clarifying business and functional requirements to the development team. Worked on the Orchestration process to integrate it in all the phases of Customer Report Generation. Involved in identifying and implementation of Soap, Xml based webservices and web methods. Involved in webservice testing of numerous webservices and API’s using Soap UI and swagger. Created and maintained the RTM (Requirements Traceability Matrix) Facilitated user acceptance testing with business users and conducted signoff meetings. Environment: Oracle, JAVA, MS Excel, MS Access, HP Quality Center, MS Visio, MS Project. 