SUMMARY Over 8+ years of experience as a Sr. Data Modeler/Data Analyst with high proficiency in requirement gathering and data modeling. Excellent Knowledge of Ralph Kimball and BillInmon's approaches to Data Warehousing. Experience in working on Distributed storage for analysis and processing of large data sets using Apache Hadoop. Experience in Designing and implementing data structures and commonly used data business intelligence tools for data analysis. Expert in building Enterprise Data Warehouse or Data warehouse appliances from Scratch using both Kimball and Inmon Approach. Experience working with Agile and Waterfall data modeling methodologies. Extensive experience in using ER modeling tools such as Erwin and ER/Studio, Teradata, BTEQ and MDM. Excellent SQL programming skills and developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Packages using SQL, PL/SQL. Experience in Data transformation and Data mapping from source to target database schemas and also data cleansing. Expertise on Relational Data modeling (3NF) and Dimensional data modeling. Hands on experience in Normalization and De - Normalization techniques for optimum performance in relational and dimensional database environments. Good understanding and hands on experience in setting up and maintaining NoSQL Databases like Cassandra, Mongo DB, and HBase. Sound noledge in Data Analysis, Data Validation, Data Cleansing, Data Verification and identifying data mismatch. Extensive noledge of Big data, Hadoop, MapReduce, Hive, NoSQL Databases and other emerging technologies. Very good experience and noledge on Amazon Web Services: AWS Redshift, AWS S3 and AWS EMR. Proficient in data mart design using dimensional data modeling - identifying Facts and Dimensions, Star Schema and Snowflake Schema. Proficient in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Project Management methodologies, and Microsoft SQL Server database management. Experience in data analysis, data migration and data modeling activities. Hands on experience with modeling using Erwin in both forward and reverse engineering processes. Strong experience in using MS Excel and MS Access to dump the data and analyze based on business needs. Experience designing security at both the schema level and the accessibility level in conjunction with the DBAs Extensive experience on usage of ETL & Reporting tools like SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Efficient in implementing Normalization to 3NF/ De-normalization techniques for optimum performance in relational and dimensional database environment Solid understanding of Data Governance, Meta Data, Data Management and control; Adept in Data warehouse and Data mart architecture. Strong background in data processing, data analysis with hands on experience in MS Excel, MS Access, Unix and Windows Servers. TECHNICAL SKILLS Data Modeling Tools:  Erwin Data Modeler 9.7, Erwin Model Manager, ER Studio v17, and Power Designer. Programming Languages:  SQL, PL/SQL, HTML5, C++, Java, XML and VBA. Reporting Tools:  SSRS, Power BI, Tableau, SSAS, MS-Excel, SAS BI Platform. Cloud Management:  Amazon Web Services(AWS), Redshift OLAP Tools:  Tableau 10.5, SAP BO, SSAS, Business Objects, and Crystal Reports Cloud Platform:  AWS, MS Azure, Google Cloud, Cloud Stack/Open Stack Databases:  Oracle 12c/11g, Teradata R15/R14, MS SQL Server 2016/2014, DB2. Operating System:  Windows, Unix, Sun Solaris Methodologies:  RAD, JAD, RUP, UML, System Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile, Waterfall Model. AWS tools:  EC2, S3 Bucket, AMI, RDS, Amazon Redshift. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Greensboro, NC Sr. Data Modeler / Data Analyst Responsibilities: As a Sr. Data Modeler / Data Analyst me was responsible for all data related aspects of a project. Worked on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), testing methodologies, resource management and scheduling of tasks. Used Agile Method for daily scrum to discuss the project related information. Conducted data modeling JAD sessions and communicated data related standards. Analyzed functional and non-functional data elements for data profiling and mapping from source to target data environment. Gatheird business requirements, working closely with business users, project leaders and developers. Analyzed the business requirements and designed Conceptual and Logical Data models. Created Logical & Physical Data Model on Relational (OLTP) on Dimension tables using Erwin. Designed a Star schema for sales data involving shared dimensions (Conformed) for other subject areas using Erwin Data Modeler. Managed database design and implemented a comprehensive Snow flake-Schema with shared dimensions. Worked on normalization techniques, normalized the data into 3rd Normal Form (3NF). Worked Normalization and De-normalization concepts and design methodologies. Used reverse engineering to connect to existing database and create graphical representation (E-R diagram). Implemented Forward engineering to create tables, views and SQL scripts and mapping documents. Worked with MDM systems team with respect to technical aspects and generating reports. Performed Confidential analysis to analyze the difference between the system capabilities and business requirements. Involved in Data flow analysis, Data modeling, Physical database design, forms design and development, data conversion, performance analysis and tuning. Created and maintained data model standards, including Master Data Management (MDM). Designed the data marts using the Ralph Kimball's Dimensional Data Mart modeling methodology using Erwin. Developed and maintained data dictionary to create metadata reports for technical and business purpose. Assisted in defining business requirements and created BRD (Business Requirements Document) and functional specifications documents. Developed automated data pipelines from various external data sources (web pages, API etc). Developed Data mapping, Data Governance, Transformation and Cleansing rules for the Data Management. Created DDL scripts using Erwin and source to target mappings to bring the data from source to the warehouse. Facilitated in developing testing procedures, test cases and User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Performed data analysis and data profiling using complex SQL on various sources systems including Oracle. Monitored the Data quality and integrity of data was maintained to ensure TEMPeffective functioning of department. Used windows Azure SQL reporting services to create reports with tables, charts and maps. Used Azure reporting services to upload and download reports Extensive experience in PL/SQL programming Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers. Worked on SQL Server concepts SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services), SSAS (Analysis Services) and SSRS (Reporting Services). Working closely with the Data Stewards & Data Architects to ensure correct and related data is captured in the data warehouse as part of Data Quality check. Environment: Agile, OLTP, Erwin 9.7, MS Azure, MDM, Oracle 12c, PL/SQL, SQL Server, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS Confidential - Washington, DC Sr. Data Modeler/Data Analyst Responsibilities: Developed full life cycle software including defining requirements, prototyping, designing, coding, testing and maintaining software. Involved in story-driven Agile development methodology and actively participated in daily scrum meetings. Used methodology as the Organization Standard to implement the data Models. Designing the architecture of the data warehouse after understanding and analyzing the legacy databases. Analyze data and provide insights and interpretation of trends for decision makers. Generated various dashboards as per the requirements, which were used by management to make key business decisions Involved in requirement gathering and database design and implementation of star-schema, snowflake schema/dimensional data warehouse using ER/Studio. Conducted JAD sessions, wrote meeting minutes and also documented the requirements. Collected requirements from business users and analyzed based on the requirements. Involved in extensive Data validation by writing several complex SQL queries. Involved in back-end testing and worked with data quality issues. Involved in developing the data warehouse for the database using the Ralph Kimball's Dimensional Data Mart modeling methodology. Worked on Data modeling, Advanced SQL with Columnar Databases using AWS Migrated reference data from existing product into Informatica MDM hub. Worked with Hadoop eco-system covering HDFS, HBase, Yarn and MapReduce. Generated comprehensive analytical reports by running SQL queries against current databases to conduct Data Analysis. Worked with data compliance teams, Data governance team to maintain data models, Metadata, Data Dictionaries. Developed and maintained Data Dictionary to create Metadata Reports for technical and business purpose. Worked on Performance Tuning of the database which includes indexes, optimizing SQL Statements. Developed various QlikView Data Models by extracting and using the data from various sources files Excel, Flat Files and Big data. Generated multiple ad-hoc Python tools and scripts to facilitate map generation and data manipulation. Environment: ER/Studio, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, SAS, Amazon Redshift, MDM, HDFS, HBase, Yarn, MapReduce, OLTP, OLAP, Metadata, MS Excel, QlikView, Crystal Reports Confidential - West Point, PA Sr. Data Modeler / Data Analyst Responsibilities: Massively involved in Sr. Data Modeler / Data Analyst role to review business requirement and compose source to target data mapping documents. Analyzed business requirements, system requirements, and data mapping specification requirements. Extensively used Agile methodology as the Organization Standard to implement the data Models. Presented the data scenarios via, ER/Studio logical models and excel mockups to visualize the data better. Designed and Developed logical & physical data models and Meta Data to support the requirements. Performed Data Analysis and data profiling using complex SQL on various sources systems including Oracle. Involved in extensive Data validation using SQL queries and back-end testing Generated DDL statements for the creation of new ER/studio objects like table, views, indexes, packages and stored procedures. Used SQL for Querying the database in Unix environment. Worked on AWS Redshift and RDS for implementing models and data on RDS and Redshift Designed Star and Snowflake Data Models for Enterprise Data Warehouse using E/R Studio. Documented data dictionaries and business requirements for key workflows and process points. Designed the data marts using the Ralph Kimball's Dimensional Data Mart modeling methodology using E/R Studio. Designed both 3NF data models for ODS, OLTP systems and dimensional data models. Worked on Normalization and De-Normalization techniques for both OLTP and OLAP systems. Designed ER diagrams and mapping the data into database objects. Monitored the Data quality and integrity of data was maintained to ensure TEMPeffective functioning of department. Worked with MDM systems team with respect to technical aspects and generating reports. Assisted in the oversight for compliance to the Enterprise Data Standards, data governance and data quality. Developed complex T-Sql code such as Stored Procedures, functions, triggers, Indexes, and views for the business application. Designed and developed cubes using SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) using Microsoft Visual Studio. Involved in complete SSIS life cycle in creating SSIS packages, building, deploying and executing the packages all environments. Developed reports for users in different departments in the organization using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Used ER/Studio for reverse engineering to connect to existing database and ODS. Created graphical representation in the form of Entity Relationships and elicit more information. Environment: Agile, ER/Studio v17, Oracle 12c, Unix, AWS, Amazon Redshift, OLTP, OLAP, NoSQL, MDM, T-Sql, SSAS, Microsoft Visual Studio 2016, SSIS, SSRS Confidential - SFO, CA Sr. Data Analyst/Data Modeler Responsibilities: Worked as a Data Analyst/Modeler to generate Data Models using SAP PowerDesigner and developed relational database system. Developed long term data warehouse roadmap and architectures, designs and builds the data warehouse framework per the roadmap. Conducted user interviews, gathering requirements, analyzing the requirements using Rational Rose, Requisite pro RUP. Developed logical data models and physical database design and generated database schemas using SAP PowerDesigner. Analyzed the business requirements of the project by studying the Business Requirement Specification document. Extensively worked on Data Modeling tools SAP PowerDesigner Data Modeler to design the data models. Created ER diagrams using Power Designer modeling tool for the relational and dimensional data modeling. Involved in data mapping document from source to target and the data quality assessments for the source data. Responsible for data profiling and data quality checks to suffice the report requirements Worked with data investigation, discovery and mapping tools to scan every single data record from many sources. Developed and maintained data dictionary to create metadata reports for technical and business purpose. Created SQL tables with referential integrity and developed queries using SQL, SQL*PLUS and PL/SQL. Designed both 3NF data models for ODS, OLTP systems and dimensional data models using star and snow flake Schemas. Designed the Database Tables & Created Table and Column Level Constraints using the suggested naming conventions for constraint keys. Reversed Engineered the existing database structure to understand the existing data models so dat any changes in corporate would synchronize with current model. Involved in Normalization / De-normalization, Normal Form and database design methodology. Involved in data analysis and modeling for the OLAP and OLTP environment. Conducted JAD Sessions with the SME, stakeholders and other management teams in the finalization of the User Requirement Documentation. Wrote T-SQL statements for retrieval of data and Involved in performance tuning of T-SQL queries and Stored Procedures. Involved with data profiling for multiple sources and answered complex business questions by providing data to business users. Designed and Developed Oracle PL/SQL and Shell Scripts, Data Import/Export, Data Conversions and Data Cleansing. Created queries using BIR reporting variables, navigational attributes and Filters. Used excel sheet, flat files, CSV files to generated Tableau ad-hoc reports Handled performance requirements for databases in OLTP and OLAP models. Facilitated in developing testing procedures, test cases and User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Involved in Data profiling and performed Data Analysis based on the requirements, which halped in catching many Sourcing Issues upfront. Developed Data mapping, Data Governance, Transformation and Cleansing rules for the Data Management involving OLTP, ODS and OLAP. Environment: SAP PowerDesigner, OLTP, OLAP, T-SQL, SSIS, SQL Server, SQL, PL/SQL, Rational Rose, ODS Confidential Data Analyst Responsibilities: Worked with Data Analyst for requirements gathering, business analysis and project coordination. Work with the Data Analysis team to gathering the Data Profiling information Responsible for the analysis of business requirements and design implementation of the business solution. Performed Data Analysis and Data validation by writing SQL queries using SQL assistant. Translated business concepts into XML vocabularies by designing XML Schemas with UML Gatheird business requirements through interviews, surveys with users and Business analysts. Worked on Data Mining and data validation to ensure the accuracy of the data between the warehouse and source systems. Developed SQL Queries to fetch complex data from different tables in databases using joins, database links. Involved in designing and developing SQL server objects such as Tables, Views, Indexes (Clustered and Non-Clustered), Stored Procedures and Functions in Transact-SQL. Participated in JAD sessions, gatheird information from Business Analysts, end users and other stakeholders to determine the requirements. Performed Data analysis of existing data base to understand the data flow and business rules applied to Different data bases using SQL. Performed data analysis and data profiling using complex SQL on various sources systems and answered complex business questions by providing data to business users. Performed the detail data analysis, Identify the key facts and dimensions necessary to support the business requirements. Generated Data dictionary reports for publishing on the internal site and giving access to different users. Used MS Visio and Rational Rose to represent system under development in a graphical form by defining use case diagrams, activity and workflow diagrams. Wrote a complex SQL, PL/SQL, Procedures, Functions, and Packages to validate data and testing process. Worked in generating and documenting Metadata while designing OLTP and OLAP systems environment. Worked in data management performing data analysis, Confidential analysis, and data mapping. Established a business analysis methodology around the RUP (Rational Unified Process). Developed stored procedures in SQL Server to standardize DML transactions such as insert, update and delete from the database. Created SSIS package to load data from Flat files, Excel and Access to SQL server using connection manager. Develop all the required stored procedures, user defined functions and triggers using T-SQL and SQL. Produced report using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and creating various types of reports. Environment:, SQL, SQL server, PL/SQL, MS Visio, Rational Rose, SSIS, T-SQL, SSRS 