SUMMARY Strong professional experience with emphasis on Analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance and implementation of Data Mapping, Data Validation, and Requirement gathering in Data warehousing Environment. Experience in datawarehousing applications using ETL tools and programming languages like python, SQL/PLSQL, Oracle and Sql server databases, Data stage, Informatica, SSIS. Experience in MS SQL Server  2014/2012/2008 R2 /2005(BIDS) with Business Intelligence in SQL Server Reporting Service and SQL Server Integration Service, SQL Server Analysis. Around 6 years of solid database experience on Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i/8.0/7.3, PL/SQL, SQL *Loader, Physical database design, Logical database design, Data Modeling (PowerBuilder), Data Mapping, Cleansing, Data Exports & Imports, Inbound/Outbound Interfaces, Application Support, Performance Tuning, Security Administration, Resource Management, Software Maintenance, User & Security Management, Oracle Tuning & Optimization. Proficient in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Project Management methodologies and Microsoft SQL Server database management. Exposed to all phases of SDLC and in - depth knowledge of agile methodology, Enterprise Reporting Life Cycle, Problem management and escalation procedures. Expert in Business Intelligence solutions in Data warehousing / Decision Support Systems using ETL tools Informatica, OLAP, OLTP and Data Warehouse Reports using Business Objects, Crystal Reports. Experience in Data cleansing and data mining using Python. Hands on experience in using Python data modules like NumPy, Pandas. Exposure to Big Data Hadoop environment and its components HDFS, Apache Pig, Hive, MapReduce. Experience in High Level Design of ETL - DTS Packages & SSIS Packages - for integrating data using OLE DB connection from heterogeneous sources (Excel, CSV, flat file, Text Format Data) by using multiple transformations provided by SSIS such as Data Conversion, Conditional Split, Bulk Insert, merge and union all. Experience in designing star schema (identification of facts, measures and dimensions), Snowflake schema for Data Warehouse, ODS architecture by using tools like Erwin data modeler, E-R Studio. Well versed inNormalization (1NF, 2NF and 3NF) and De normalizationtechniques for optimum performance in relational and dimensional database environments. Highly proficient in the use of T-SQL for developing complex stored procedures, triggers, cursors, tables, user profiles, relational database models and data integrity, SQL joins and query writing. Hands on experience working with SSIS, for ETL process ensuring proper implementation of Event Handlers, Loggings, breakpoints, Checkpoints, Transactions and package configurations. Efficient in process modeling using Erwin in both forward and reverse engineering cases. Experience working with designing a canonical model and working on Ralph Kimball and Bill Inman approaches. Worked on administration tasks such as data loading, batch jobs, data unloading, backup & Recovery, user and application table management, upgrades, creating databases/File groups/files/Transaction logs, database design solutions in collaboration with programming team. Experience in Disaster Recovery Planning, Execution and Testing at remote side. Support root cause analysis and define action plans to prevent future outages and ensure. Experience in creating Sub Reports, Tabular Reports, Matrix Reports, Parameterized Reports, drill down Reports and Charts using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and web reporting by customizing URL Access. Worked on Reporting Services (SSRS). Created multiple reports like Drill Down, Drill through, Cascaded parameterized, parameterized, and ad hoc reporting. Experience including analysis, modeling, design, and development of Tableau reports and dashboards for analytics and reporting applications. Experience on Cognos BI tools - versions 10.2, 8.4, & 8.2 (Report Studio, Workspace, Workspace Advanced, Analysis Studio, Query Studio and Cognos Connection), Power Play Transformer. Experience in Cognos 10.2 Workspace, Workspace Advanced and Active Reports. Extensively used Cognos Framework Manager - Creating Models in Framework Manager - Importing Meta Data from Different Sources, Dimension Hierarchy, Determents, and Star Schema Grouping, creating and publishing Packages. Awarded certificate for successful completion of Google Analytics Individual and Advanced courses. Successful completion of data cleaning, data analysis and data visualization courses using Python under Dataquest. Good team player, excellent interpersonal and communication skills combined with self-motivation, initiative and the ability to think outside the box. TECHNICAL SKILLS Databases: Oracle 11g, 10g, 9i, SQL Server 2012/2008R2, MongoDB and MySQL. Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, TSQL, Python, HTML, XML, Nodejs, UNIX, JAVASCRIPT Analytics & Reporting: SSAS, Tableau Public, SSRS, Cognos, Crystal Reports, Machine Learning  ETL: Informatica, DataStage, SQL Server DTS, Visual Studio 2012/2010. BI Tools: SSIS, BI Development Studio, Visual Studio  2005/2008/2012 , Performance Monitor, Power Pivot Design Tools: ERWIN modeler, ER Studio, Oracle Designer, MS VISIO Operating Systems: Windows 8/7/XP, UNIX PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Senior Data Analyst Confidential, Owensboro, KY Responsibilities: Involved in gathering the requirements from BSA and involved in the meetings held with BSS for the design approach. Involved in Data Migration from Oracle Legacy to SQL using SQL Navigator and SQL Management Studio. Involved in Analysis, profiling and cleansing of legacy data and hence making the data available for further use. Engage user to gather software requirements rules and ensure alignment with development teams. Assisted to build analytic tools to manage data and streamline data analyses using Python and SQL. Complex incoming data cleaning and formatting using Python. Ensured data accuracy through the creation and implementation of data integrity queries. Provided technical assistance for development and execution of test plans and cases as per client requirements. Developed queries to build a new database in SQL using SSIS and migrated the data from the legacy. Created batch files that execute the ETL scripts which invokes SSIS packages. Created SSIS packages for data Importing, Cleansing, and Parsing etc. Extracted, cleaned and validated. Created SSIS Packages using Pivot Transformation, Fuzzy Lookup, Derived Columns, Condition Split, Term extraction, Aggregate, Execute SQL Task, Data Flow Task, and Execute Package Task etc. to generate underlying data for the reports and to export cleaned data from Excel Spreadsheets, Text file, MS Access and CSV files to data ware house by using BIDS. Design and implement comprehensive Backup Plan and Disaster Recovery strategies. Prepared documentation of Data Migration and Data Mapping with its specifications for development from source to target. Supported technical team members in development of automated processes for data extraction and analysis. Facilitated in developing tests and procedures and with UAT testing. Used TOAD and SQL navigator as a part of business requirement. Used Excel sheets, flat files, CSV files and some deployment files to prepare reports through SSRS. Data has been validated and verified manually and automatically. Prepared scripts to ensure proper data access, manipulation, and reporting functions with Python and SQL. Coordinate with the business users in providing appropriate, effective and efficient way to design the new reporting needs based on the user with the existing functionality. Developed List, cross tab, drill through, master-detail, chart and complex reports which involved Multiple Prompts in Cognos Report Studio. Involved in modifying the existing Reports based upon the change requested by the users. Involved in resolving Performance issues with various reports. Prepared plan and upgraded the Cognos 8.4 version models and reports to Cognos 10.2 and 11.4. Created reports in Business Insight Advanced and Report Studio. Environment: SQL Server 2014/12, Oracle 11g, 12c, Python, TOAD for SQL, SQL developer, MS Office, SSIS, SSRS, Cognos, Windows 7. Senior Data Modeler/Analyst Confidential, CedarRapids, IA Responsibilities: Involved in gathering requirements from Business System Specialist and involved in discussions with BSS for dashboard design. Involved in Analysis, profiling and cleansing of source data and understanding the business process. Built ODS integrating the source systems for ad-hoc reporting. Used Erwin for reverse engineering to connect to existing database and ODS to create graphical representation in the form of Entity Relationships and elicit more information. Built conceptual, logical and physical models using Erwin. Used Normalization techniques to normalize the data in ODS. Forward Engineered the physical data model and generated DDL script using Forward Engineering option in Erwin. Identified facts and dimensions based on KPI and identified the source tables. Built Conceptual, Logical & Physical start schema using Erwin. Created STTM documentation for data mart integrating different source systems. Involved in documentation of Data Mapping & ETL specifications for development from source to target. Also implemented the change Data Capture (CDC) while integrating the enterprise data sources. Created Indexes and Partitions to optimize the performance. Assisting ETL Team, BI team and end users to understand the data model. Analyzing raw data, drawing conclusions & developing recommendations also writing SQL scripts to manipulate data for data loads and extracts. Facilitated in developing testing procedures, test cases and User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Mastered the ability to design and deploy rich Graphic visualizations using Tableau. Developed monthly summary and downstream data marts from enterprise wide databases in accordance with reporting requirements with dimensions like time, customers, services and accounts. Developed Star and Snowflake schemas based dimensional model to develop the data warehouse. Handled performance requirements for databases in OLTP and OLAP models. Reverse engineered from Toad database to Erwin and generated SQL script through forward engineer in Erwin. Environment: Erwin 9.5, Oracle 12c, JDE 9.0, IBM DataStage 11, SQL Developer, Toad for MySQL 6.3, MS Office, Crystal Reports, Tableau, UNIX. Data Modeler/Analyst Confidential, Dallas, TX Responsibilities: Worked with the Business Analyst and DBA for requirements gathering, business analysis, and testing and project coordination. Gathered requirements and created use case diagrams as part of requirements analysis. Analyzed and evaluated existing system for assessing how it supported functions. Implemented Referential Integrity using primary key and foreign key relationships. Involved in Dimensional modeling of the Data. Identified the Facts and Dimensions. Identified and tracked the slowly changing dimensions and determined the hierarchies in dimensions. Produced functional decomposition and logical models into an enterprise data model. Employed process and data analysis to model a Customer Information Business System. Consulted with client management and staff to identify and document business needs and objectives, current operational procedures for creating the logical data model. Created physical data models using forward engineering. Modeled a database to store customer demographic and other data. Involved in the creation, maintenance of Data Warehouse and repositories containing Metadata. Developed Logical data model using Erwin. Used Erwin for relational database and dimensional data warehouse designs. Conducted logical data model walkthroughs and validation. Helped the DBA in creating the physical database design and QA team in their testing. Environment: Oracle 10g, Toad, ERWIN, Crystal reports 9, Windows XP, Informatica Power Center, Teradata, DB2. Data Analyst Confidential, Columbus, OH Responsibilities: Designed and developed Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) processes using Base SAS and Data Integration Studio to populate Datawarehouse’s and Reporting Data Marts. Have strong hands on experience in various databases like Oracle and MySQL, SQL Server R2 and Teradata. Worked in designing and optimizing various T-SQL database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, user defined functions, Indexes and Triggers. Worked on pre-existing macros for data validation by checking data distribution and comparison to standard data. Developed Information Maps, OLAP cubes and based on project requirements. Wrote pig UDF’sand used various UDFs from Piggybanks and other sources. Extracted data from different sources like claims data mart and text files using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and created SAS datasets. Performed data cleaning by analyzing and elimination duplicate and inaccurate data using PROC FREQ, PROC UNIVARIATE, PROC RANK PROC, TABULATION and macros in SAS. Used SAS PROC SQL pass through facility to connect to tables and created SAS datasets using various SQL joins such as left join, right join, inner join and full join. Report generation on providers such as total amount billed Per-patient average billing amounts etc. for auditors and investigator using PROC UNIVARIATE, PROC MEANS and PROC REPORT. Build regression and predictive models in SAS and SPSS according to specification as required. Developed Strategies for Data Analysis and Data Validation with the help of Pl/SQL, SQL and UNIX. Assist business analysts by writing complex adhoc queries in SQL. Analyze source systems and target data requirements and identify gaps in data, document issues and seek resolutions. Reviews mapping documents provided by Business Team and implement the business logic into the UNIX and PL/SQL scripts that load data structures in database. Worked on UNIX workstation operation, particularly Solaris and LINUX. Environment: Oracle 10g, SQL, ERWIN, Crystal reports 9, SAS, Teradata, Windows 7, Informatica Power Center SQL Server/SSIS/SSRS Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Worked on the Reports module of the project as a developer on MSSQL Server 2005(usingSSRS, T-SQL, scripts, stored procedures and views). Created reports fromOLAP,sub reports, bar charts and matrix reports usingSSRS Worked onDTS/SSISfor transferring data from Heterogeneous Database (Access database and xml format data) to SQL Server. Involved in Data Integration by identifying the information needs within and across functional areas of an enterprise database upgrade andMigration with SQL server Export Utility. Used DTS/SSIS and T-SQL stored procedures to transfer data from OLTP databases to staging area and finally transfer into data marts and performed action in XML. Involved in deployment of SSRS reports on the SharePoint Portal. Performance tuning of SQL queries and stored proceduresusing SQL Profiler and Index Tuning Wizard. Created cubes and defined the dimensions and Responsible for defining calculated members Troubleshooting performance issues andfine-tuningqueries and stored procedures. Wrote stored procedures to get the fields required for the reports. Created datasets using stored procedures and reports using multi value parameters Created sub reports, bar charts and matrix reports. Dealt with huge amount of data and used SSAS to retrieve the data Worked with data extraction using SSIS and Data Warehouse staging, and loading. Responsible for hiding and disabling attributes and attribute hierarchies. Implementing the calculations to aggregate physical measures. Developed reports that deliver data from cubes. Created and managed subscriptions for the reports. Defined specific read/process permissions for the users inSSASinstance. Implemented user-based security in SSRS reports to limit the access of reports. Responsible for identifying and defining Data Source and Data Source views. Created SSIS packages to move data from oracle to SQL Server which involved using various transformations, developing SQL queries. Environment: SQL Server (2003, 64-bit edition of SQL server 2000), SharePoint, DTS, Microsoft Business Intelligence Development Studio, VB Scripts, SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Office, Excel, SSRS, SSIS, SSAS. Database Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Involved in the design of the overall database using Entity Relationship diagrams. Strong knowledge in major databases MySQL, Oracle10g/9i, SQL Server 2005, DB2 etc. Wrote triggers, menus and stored procedures in PL/SQL. Creation of Teradata BTEQ, fast Load, Fast export scripts and UNIX shell scripts to perform the fulfillments Creation of Tables, Views to fulfill the business needs and support the Production systems with day to day activities and support the performance issues. Involved in Data loading and Extracting functions using SQL*Loader. Designed and developed all the tables, views for the system in Oracle. Involved in developing interactive forms and customization of screens using Forms 4.5. Developed programs in SAS to generate reports, creating RTF, HTML listings and reports using SASODS for ad-hoc and Weekly & Monthly report generation. Developed UNIX and PL/SQL scripts for pre-& post session processes to automate daily loads. Worked with Modelers and Architects for table issues. Involved in building, debugging and running forms. Developed SSRS Reports like Drill through Reports, Drilldown Reports, linked reports and parameterized reports. Used Scheduler to automate report scheduling and generating reports. Scheduled reports for running at a certain time, such as week, month etc. Environment: Oracle 10g/9i, SQL*plus, SQL*Loader, Teradata BTEQ, MySQL, DB2, Visual studio 2005, TOAD, PL/SQL, Forms 4.5, Reports 2.5, UNIX, Windows 7/XP. 