SUMMARY Over 7 years of experience in Database development using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL. Substantial development experience in creating Procedures, Packages, Functions, Triggers views, Cursors, PL/SQL Collections and optimizing query performance and other database objects using SQL, PL/SQL. Experienced in backend database development using tools SQL*PLUS,SQL* Loader, Oracle Designer, Oracle TOAD with good understanding of RDBMS and Normalization Techniques. Experienced in environments requiring direct customer interaction during specifications, design, and development and product implementation phases. Experience in ETL (Extract Transform Load), Data Integration, Data Mapping, Data Warehousing using Informatica and Oracle . Experience in developing forms and generating reports. Extensively worked with various SQL scripts for relational databases. Proficient in Application Performance Tuning and Query Optimization. Writing scripts for collection of statistics, reorganization of tables and indexes, and creation of indexes for enhancing performance for data access. Strong knowledge of Data Extraction, Data Mapping, Data Conversion and Data Loading process using UNIX Shell scripting, SQL, PL/SQL and SQL Loader. Supported legacy applications that use Oracle form and Oracle repots 6i. Designed complex Oracle reports based on the business user requirements using Oracle Reports builder. Strong knowledge in Data Warehousing concepts, hands on experience using Teradata utilities. Enforcing data integrity using integrity constraints and database triggers. Extensively worked on Triggers for implementing complex data integrity checks and for auditing tables. Developed (Extraction, Transformation and Loading)ETL Using Pre - Stage, Stage, Pre-Target and Target tables. Knowledge in Test Scripts, Test Cases, and SQL QA scripts to perform Unit testing, System Testing and load testing. Migrated the Code from Development to Testing, UAT and Production. Good understanding of Oracle Data Dictionary, RDBMS and Normalization techniques. Experienced in requirement analysis, coding and testing various modules in a software development life cycle. Excellent interpersonal skills, team player and ability to work well with all levels of an organization with effective presentation, verbal and written communication skills. Ability to utilize new tools and technologies in a changing environment. A Self-starter with a positive attitude, willingness to learn new concepts and accept challenges. TECHNICAL SKILLS RDBMS: Oracle 12c,11g/10g/9i/8i, SQL Server, MySQL, MS-Access, db2, T-SQL Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell scripting, Perl, C, C++, Java Web technologies: XML, HTML, DHTML, Java script, JQuery Tools: Oracle Enterprise Manager, Oracle PDH, Oracle EBS, TOAD, SQL*Plus, SQL* Loader, SQL Developer, PL/SQL Developer, Oracle reports and forms 6i/9i/10g, Discoverer 4i/9i/11g, Erwin, JIRA, Visio, Control-M, Autosys, Putty, Winscp, CVS, ARCH and SVN Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Red Hat Linux 7.0, Sun Solaris. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Iowa City, IA Oracle PL/SQL Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the Analysis, Design, Coding and Testing of the application and participated in discussion meetings about requirements. Conducted weekly meetings with business, developers and testers to review new requirements, track the ongoing development and testing. Maintained functional and technical documents for the projects. Developed SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, views and sequences. Wrote complex PL/SQL queries and performed data analysis. Created and Modified PL/SQL Triggers, Procedures, Functions and packages Extensively used for all and bulk collect to fetch large volumes of data from table. Used SQL*Loader to load bulk data from various flat files and legacy systems. Developed SQL and PL/ SQL scripts for transfer of data between databases. Designed and developed complex reports to meet end user requirements and deployed using Oracle Report 10g. Worked on various financial modules (AP -Accounts Payables, OM- Order Management and AR- Accounts Receivables). Worked on Scripting Administrator in EBS for creating different user interface forms. Created different FND CONCURRENT REQUEST and assigned to the user responsibility for different concurrent process to be run in E-Business suite. Developed complex triggers in reports before/after for validation of user input. Designed and developed user interfaces using Oracle Forms 10g. Developed UNIX shell, PERL scripts to automate data extraction using VI editor, SQL scripts and PL/SQL scripts. Scheduled all the shell scripts in crontab and monitor them by logging them in to a separate table. Worked on the integration on various legacy systems to the main process which included the data migration and maintenance. Worked on data imports / Exports, Data pumps, SQL Loader. Involved in User Acceptance Test (UAT) for the application. Worked as a part of Scrum team. Worked with JIRA to track the stories assigned. Worked on ServiceNow for creating tickets for migrating the code in Test, Stress and Production environments. Environment: s: Oracle 10g/11g, 12c, Oracle E-Business Suite R12, Control- M, Oracle forms/reports 10g, 6i, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, Toad, SQL* Loader, Javascripts, UNIX, PERL, SVN, GITHub Confidential, Mclean, VA Oracle Developer Responsibilities: Participated in client requirement sessions to analyze and gather business requirements. Involved in the Analysis, Design, Coding and Testing of the application and participated in discussion meetings about requirements. Involved in logical and physical database design. Developed ER Diagrams, Data flow diagrams based on the requirement. Developed SQL scripts to create database objects like tables, views and sequences. Wrote complex PL/SQL queries and performed data analysis. Created and Modified PL/SQL Triggers, Procedures, Functions and packages Extensively used for all and bulk collect to fetch large volumes of data from table. Used SQL*Loader to load bulk data from various flat files and legacy systems. Developed SQL and PL/ SQL scripts for transfer of data between databases. Used Ref cursors and Collections for accessing complex data resulted from joining of large number of tables. Optimized long running application queries, Analyzing tables, tuned stored procedures for maximum efficiency in various schemas across databases. Worked extensively on performance tuning handling large volume of datasets (>500 million rows). Modified and enhanced existing systems to in corporate new functionality and to optimize them for performance. Worked extensively on performance tuning and Query Tuning (Generating Plan Table, Explain Plan, optimizer with Hints, Analyze, and Indexing strategy, and SQL Trace, TKPROF, AWR and ADDM reports). Designed the PL/SQL Procedures to load data from Flat files and Oracle into the target Oracle database. Developed UNIX shell scripts to automate data extraction using VI editor, SQL scripts and PL/SQL scripts. Scheduled all the shell scripts in crontab and monitor them by logging them in to a separate table. Worked on the integration on various legacy systems to the main process which included the data migration and maintenance. Worked on data imports / Exports, Data pumps, SQL Loader. Worked on Database Design, Data Modeling, Migration, and Systems Architecture, Planning, Testing Query Optimization and Trouble Shooting. Extensively worked on Informatica to extract data from flat files and Oracle, and to load the data into the target database. Performed Unit Testing for all developed ETL mappings Involved in Code Review and User Acceptance Testing (UAT) of the application. Understanding the process and Interacting with functional team to resolve the issues in the given objects. Was responsible to update and maintain all process related documents and coordinate the effort within teams. Helped in maintaining an effective documentation process to track the version control and requirement changes. Environment: s: MS SQL Server, MS Access, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, Informatica 9.1(Designer, Repository Manager, Workflow Manager TOAD, Erwin, Windows XP, RedHat LinuxEE 5.3, SVN. Confidential, Austin, TX Oracle PL/SQL Developer Responsibilities: Generated SQL and PL/SQL scripts to install building database objects including: tables, views, primary keys, indexes, constraints, packages, sequences, grants and synonyms with oracle 10gdatabase. Created complex functions, stored procedures and packages by using PL/SQL. Participated in Designing databases (schemas) to ensure that the relationship between data is guided by tightly bound Key constraints. Responsible working with user groups, analyzing reported problems, performing root cause analysis and presenting alternatives to correct the problem. Developed back end interfaces using PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, functions, Object Types, Pipelined functions, Oracle queues and used Collections, Bulk Collects to improve performance by minimizing the number of context switches between the PL/SQL and SQL engines. Wrote complex SQL queries using Joins, sub queries and inline views to retrieve data from the database. Created Cursors, Collections and database triggers for maintaining complex integrity constraints and implementing the complex business rules. Worked on various tables to create Indexes to improve query performance. Also worked on partitioning large tables using Range Partitioning, creating Index Organized Table, Rollback Tablespace. Involved in Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL process) from Source to target And Worked on Windows Batch scripting, scheduling jobs and monitoring logs. Developed Batch Reports using SQR and enhanced SQR reports for production. Involved in Dimensional modeling and developed the star and snowflake schemas. Designed and developed complex reports to meet end user requirements and deployed using Oracle Report 10g. Developed complex triggers in reports before/after for validation of user input. Designed and developed user interfaces using Oracle Forms 10g. Converted oracle form application 6i to 10g using migration assistant. Performed unit testing and supported integration testing and end user testing. Extensively worked on production issues with effective defect management. Proactively tuned SQL queries and performed refinement of the database design leading to significant improvement of system response time and efficiency. Developed SQR’s for loading data from feed file to staging tables. Involved in SQL tuning, PL/SQL tuning and Application tuning using various tools like TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN etc. Design and development of conversions, interfaces, customizations, Custom Forms, Reports and all Technical design and solutions. Environment: s: Oracle 10g/11g, Oracle forms/reports 10g, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, Toad, MSSQL Server, Windows NT, HTML, XML. Confidential, Houston, TX Oracle Developer Responsibilities: Developed Stored Procedures, Function and Packages for the Financial System. Setup, tested and implemented new descriptive flex fields in Oracle Financials. Used database triggers and PL/SQL for development of system. Extensively used PL/SQL to write Cursors for acquiring information to be used in calculations written in stored procedures. Developed interfaces using PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, functions, Object Types, Cursors, Pipelined functions, Oracle queues and used Collections and Bulk Collects. Worked extensively on tuning of SQL and PL/SQL code using various tools like explain plan, TKPROF, SQL tuning advisor and SQL trace to enhance the performance. Created Korn Shell scripts which Confidential as a wrapper for various tasks like - for executing the SQL*Loader command lines, for refreshing the materialized views and for updating the Fact and the Dimension tables. Worked on various projects involving gap and map analysis, design and customization as per the business rules and worked on custom applications development involving. Load the data into Oracle 9i, Oracle High -Performance, scalable database. Change of Accounts, Currencies, defining calendars, setup books and Multiorg setup. Design, development, testing and implementation of a custom billing System and order entry system. Implemented using Oracle 9i and Forms 6i. Developed forms to view payments, accept payments, view financial transactions, maintain and view cash assignments, view refunds, credit accounts, and transfer debit balances. Involved in Tuning Database & Application performance using Explain Plan, TKprof, resolving lock contentions, identifying & killing sessions. Worked with java developers to repair and enhance current base ofPL/SQL packagesto fix production issues and build new functionality and improve processing time throughcode optimizations and indexes. Environment: s: Oracle 10g, SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX,SQL* Plus, Reports 6i, Forms 6i/4.5, SQL* LOADER, TOAD, Discoverer 6i, Apex 4.2. Confidential PL/SQL Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for writing database programming to Store/Retrieve the information from the database using SQL. Designing and creating schema objects like Database tables, indexes, views, synonyms, and all schema objects in Oracle. Responsible for managing production, development & test databases and applications. Wrote Stored Procedures according to specs and control files for input to SQL*Loader utilities for loading data from external files into the Oracle database. Used Oracle UTL file features to create flat files and Procedures for Data Extraction. Creation of Users and Granting them privileges and roles. Creation of Table space, Data files, Indexes, Rollback Segment and monitoring them. Creating databases, objects, roles and privileges. Partitioned large tables to increase the performance. Configured scripts to monitor activity with database. Wrote extensive Sub Queries, PL/SQL procedures, functions, database triggers and packages. Writing Pl/SQL procedures and functions. Writing shell scripts to automate the data loading. Monitoring the data loading jobs and tuning the SQL queries. Environment: s: Oracle 8i,9i, SQL Server 2000, UNIX (Sun Solaris), Windows (NT/2000/Advanced Server), TOAD, SQL*PLUS, Explain Plan, UNIX Shell Scripting, Quest software tools. 