SUMMARY Having 5+ years of programming experience as an OraclePL/SQLDeveloperin Analysis, Design, and Implementation of Business Applications using the Oracle Relational Database Management System (RDBMS). Involved in all phases of the SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) from analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, Production Support, Quality Assurance and maintenance wif timely delivery against aggressive deadlines. Experience in Client - Server application development using Oracle PL/SQL,SQL*PLUS, TOAD,SQL*LOADER. Solid experience of creatingPL/SQLPackages, Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Materialized Views to retrieve, manipulate and migrate complex data sets in Oracle Databases. Effectively made use of Indexes, Table Partitioning, Collections, Analytical functions. Strong experience in Data Analysis, Data Profiling, Data Cleansing & Quality, Data Migration, Data Integration Excellent experience in designing, developing, documenting and testing ofETLjobs and mappings in Server and parallel jobs using Data Stage to populate tables in Data Warehouse and Data marts. Have experience in Data Modeler. Working in areas of Data Mining and Data quality process. Experienced in using ETL tools in (SSIS) MS SQL 2008, MS SQL 2005 and DTS in MS SQL 2000. Experience in Query Optimization, Debugging, Tuning and improvising performance of the database, using theOracletools like Hints, Explain Plan, and TKPROF. Worked extensively on Ref Cursor, External Tables, Collections (Nested Tables and Array) in complex backend packages. Experience in Extraction & Migration of Data from heterogeneous data sources like Excel,MSAccess, Oracle, and DB2 toMSSQLServerby using Import Export Wizard, DTSSSIS, and BCP & Bulk Insert utilities. Experience in developing SQL*Loader control programs and PL/SQL validation scripts for validating data to load data from staging tables to production tables. Good noledge of key Oracle performance related features, such as Query Optimizer, Execution Plans and Indexes, for faster execution. Experienced in scheduling, running and monitoring jobs using ETL tool IBM DataStage 8.5. Involved in Agile Software Development Team using SCRUM, TDD Test Driven Development. Used SVN, CVS, GIT for Version controlling and error reporting and project management tools like JIRA. Excellent communication, interpersonal, analytical skills and strong ability to perform as part of a team. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Oracle PL/SQL Developer Confidential, Scottsdale, AZ Responsibilities:  Involved as a key team member for Requirement Analysis during the design phase and interaction wif the client. Created stored procedures, functions, packages, collections, triggers, object types to implement complex business functionality. Engaged in writing PL/SQL stored procedures and complex queries to read data from multipledatabases, apply business rules to create summarized data to be consumed by the application. Written complex OracleSQLqueries wif complexity using Inner/Outer joins, Union All, Intersect & Minus set operators. Optimized query performance wif modification inPL/SQLqueries, removing unnecessary columns, eliminating redundant and inconsistent data, establishing necessary joins, creating useful indexes and Views. Extensively monitored various jobs for data staging, processing and loading data. DevelopedPL/SQLpackage procedures using REF cursor, Collections. Extensively used the advanced features ofPL/SQLlike Records, Tables, Object types and DynamicSQL. Working wif tools like SQL Developer, Toad, Jira, Team Foundation Server (TFS). CreatedSSISpackages to validate, extract, transform and load data-to-data warehouse databases and deployed wif minimal changes using XML configuration file. Performed data analysis and data profiling using complex SQL on various sources systems including Oracle and Teradata. Performed Full load & Incremental load wif several Data flow tasks and Control Flow Tasks usingSSIS. Optimized and enhanced the existing procedures andSQLstatements for the better performance. Involved in planning process of iterations under the Agile Scrum methodology. Involved in preparing test plans, unit testing, System integration testing, implementation and maintenance. Analyzed the tickets based on description in JIRA. WrittenPLSQLscripts to fix the defects. Environment: Oracle 11g/10g,PL/SQL,SQLLoader, SQL, Agile, Team Foundation Server, OraclePL/SQLDeveloper. Confidential, Austin, TX PL/SQL Developer Responsibilities: Develop and implement databases, data collection systems, data analytics and other strategies that optimize statistical efficiency and quality. Created /updated tables, Indexes, materialized views, synonyms and sequences per requirement. Involved in getting the User Requirements, Data Modeling & Development of the system. UsedPLSQLto Extract Transform and Load (ETL) the data into Data Warehouse and Developed PL/SQL scripts in accordance wif the necessary Business rules and procedures. Involved in ETL (EXTRACT, TRANSFORM and LOAD) in OLAP database to transfer data from source tables into the data warehouse tables using PL/SQL. SupportedAPEXapplications and conducted performance tuning for PLSQL. Configure SSL forAPEXover web logic server, HTTP server and others in Test and production environments. Extensively worked on BULK COLLECTS, BULK INSERTS, and BULK UPDATES & BULK DELETES for loading, updating and deleting huge data. Experience working wif Oracle Workspace Manager to handle transactional data at different instances such LIVE and save point. Used various transformation tasks to createETLpackages for data conversion. Extensively involved in performance tuning using Explain Plan, DBMS PROFILER, Optimized SQL queries and created Materialized views for better performance. Worked on control-M Scheduler for successfully working of these validated scripts to run in daily and weekly basis. Involved in tuningETLPLSQLpackages and SQL queries, views by passing hints and analyzing them using plan table and created indexes if needed. Worked extensively on Ref cursors and alter table exchange partition and implemented in many procedures. Worked wif Fixed width flat files to load into staging tables. Used Tortoise SVN sub version for code repository. Environment: Oracle 11g, ORACLEAPEX4.2/4.1,TOAD, Windows XP, Pl/SQL, SQL, UNIX, DataStage 8.1, ETL, SVN. Confidential, Austin, TX Data Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for gathering data migration requirements. Identified problematic areas and conduct research to determine the best course of action to correct the data. Analyzed problem and solved issues wif current and planned systems as they relate to the integration and management of order data. Analyzed reports of data duplicates or other errors to provide ongoing appropriate inter-departmental communication and monthly or daily data reports. Monitor for timely and accurate completion of select data elements. Monitor data dictionary statistics. Involved in analyzing and adding new features of Oracle 10g like DBMS SHEDULER, Create Directory, Data pump, CONNECT BY ROOT in existing Oracle 9i application. Archived the old data by converting them in to SAS data sets and flat files. Extensively used Erwin tool in Forward and reverse engineering, following the Corporate Standards in Naming Conventions, using Conformed dimensions whenever possible. Enhance smooth transition from legacy to newer system, through change management process. Trained team members in PL/SQL and provided Knowledge Transfer sessions on Finance and Banking domains. Planned project activities for the team based on project timelines using Work Breakdown Structure. Created Technical Design Documents, Unit Test Cases. Involved in Test case/data preparation, execution and verification of the test results Created user guidance documentations. Created reconciliation report for validating migrated data. Used GIT for pulling and committing the developed content from/to the GIT repository Environment: Oracle 11g, SQL, PL/SQL, (SSIS) SQL Server Integration Services, (SSRS) SQL Server Reporting Services,UNIX shell script, Git, Visual Studio 2005/2008/2012 Confidential OraclePL/SQL Developer Responsibilities: Coordinated wif the front-end design team to provide them wif the necessary stored procedures and packages and the necessary insight into the data. Involved in logical modeling and physical modeling of application. Created new database objects like Procedures, Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes and Views using SQL in Development and Production environment for Oracle 10g and was involved wif the Performance tuning, Optimization of queries and standardization of the code. Used Database trigger for making history of insertion, updating, deletion and all kind of Audit routines. Developed PL/SQL Procedures and database triggers for the validation of input data and to implement business rules. Suggested and Implemented indexes for faster retrieval of data in Weekly and Monthly Metrics reports. Created records, tables, collections (nested tables and arrays) for improving performance by reducing context switching. ImplementedSSISdata, created maintenance procedures and provided data integrity strategies. Developed custom reports and deployed them on server using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Worked on data conversion, loaded data from different Sources into the Temp data backup environment using SQL Loader and validated the data before loading it into oracle tables. Environment: Oracle 10g, UNIX, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Loader, SSIS,SSRS, SSAS, UNIX shell script, XML, Forms & Reports 9i, PL/SQLDeveloperand Toad. 