SUMMARY: 9 years of experience in project life cycle, analysis, design and development of client/server, windows, web based applications in Microsoft .Net IDE using C#, ASP.Net 2.0 till 4.5, MVC, WPF, WCF, ADO.Net, Entity Framework, visual studio 2012 and SQL Server. Experience working with N - tier and SOA Architectures using WCF and implementing Web Services SOAP. Designing and developing web applications and windows applications on .Net framework through agile and waterfall development methodologies. Proficient in Web Services, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT, Xpath, XML Schema. Thorough understanding of database design, writing complex SQL queries, stored procedures, indexes to optimize search performance, triggers and views. Hands on exposure with ADO.Net, Entity Framework. Demonstrated expertise using ETL tools, including SQL Server Integration Services(SSIS), Data Transformation Services(DTS) Extensive experience in working with LINQ to Objects, LINQ to SQL and LINQ to XML and REST services and ADO.NET Entity Framework Experience in Product Development in the Health Care domain - PAS & Clinical system development with Integration using ENSEMBLE. Developed and supported HL7 v2 and v3 messages for ADT, QBP, PDS, and PSIS. Excellent understanding of the Business process, functionality and requirements to review system requirement specification. Release Management - Planning and implementation of Code-Drops, Production Migrations and Post Go-Live activities. Working extensively with client & client support teams for providing solutions related to Product & for issue resolution.Knowledge on troubleshooting / resolving the real time production issues. Involved in reviewing and analyzing the Quality of the application by executing unit, regression and integration test cases written by the team. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Languages: .Net Framework(2.0, 3.5,4.5), C# and ASP.Net, MVC, Web API, ADO.Net, Entity Framework, LINQ, Web Services, WCF, WPF, Windows Services, SSIS, XML, XSLT, Dev Express 11.2,Visual Studio 2015, SSIS, N-Unit Frontend: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JQuery Integration Tool: Ensemble 2008 Integration Engine Databases: Microsoft SQL Server 2005, Microsoft SQL Server 2008 Source Control: IBM Rational Synergy, Microsoft TFS, Borland Star Team, SVN EXPERIENCE: Confidential  Lead Responsibilities: Interacting with the clients and gathering the requirements for enhancements and application issues. Interacting with multiple stake holders involved in business and for issues related to LMS application. Providing production support and performing RCA and fixing issues. Debugging and troubleshooting the issues. Task allocation among team members and preparing SR metrics, Weekly status reports and Quality documents. Code Reviews and code optimization for Team Responsible for all the deliverables with respect to module Environment: C#.Net, WCF, WPF, MVVM, Enterprise Library, SQL Server 2008 R2, Visual Studio 2010, TFS, Silver light Confidential  Module Lead Responsibilities: Interacted with client in requirement gathering and preparing SRS, Use case and Estimation documents. Analyzing user requirements and preparing Technical Specification documents. Used N tire architecture for Presentation Layer, the Business Layer and Data Access Layers and coded using C#.Net. Written SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers using SQL Server 2008. Developed windows service for synchronizing application Meta data from server database to local database. Developed and consumed Web services using WCF with zip compression techniques for integrating with external applications. Designed windows forms using Dev Express controls and developed business logic using c#.Net. Developed web application using MVC and Entity Framework. Developed and invoked SSIS package from windows application. Created packages using Microsoft startup projects and deployed web services and windows setups. Provided production support, performed RCAs and fixed issues. Prepared User documents Managed a team of 5 members. Task allocation among team members and preparing SR metrics, Weekly status reports and Quality documents. Code Reviews and code optimization for Team Responsible for all the deliverables with respect to module Environment: C#.Net, WCF, WPF, MVC, Entity Framework, SQL Server 2008 R2, DEV Express 11.2, Visual Studio 2012, TFS Senior Developer Confidential  Responsibilities: Analyzed Functional Specifications for enhancements and created technical documents. Analyzed existing code and done Impact Analysis for enhancements and bug fixes. Worked in Service Oriented Architecture. Developed code for HL7 v2 ADT, QBP, ORM, ORU, and MFN in Ensemble using cache language. Developed code for HL7v3 messages for PSIS (Patient Spine Information Services) & PDS (Patient Demographic Services) using XML, XSLT and XSD Schemas. Developed code for Business Component and Web services for handling HL7 data. Created packages using Ensemble. Involved in support activities like setting up environment for testing, smoke testing, addressing build failures, issue fixing Mentored a team of 4 members by providing guidance to them while coding for issue fixes and change requests Code Review and code optimization for Team Task allocation among team members Worked at the Client site (UK) to support Lorenzo Installation and integration of the product with other Healthcare Applications for 3 months. Coordinated with domain analysts and other stake holders in analyzing and developing the requirements and Change requests. Involved in configuring and Customizing “Ensemble” Integration Engine, for different customer sites. Environment: C#.Net, XML, Web services, Ensemble 2008, SQL Server 2005 Confidential  .Net Developer Responsibilities: Interacting with client in requirement gathering. Analyzing user requirement specifications and preparing Technical Documents Designed web pages using ASP.Net 2.0 and coded business logic using C#.Net Developed store procedures and functions related to my modules. Responsible for all the deliverables with respect to my module Done Unit Testing using N Unit. Involved in User Acceptance Test and production rollout Prepared User manual Environment: C#, ASP.Net, SQL Server 2000, JavaScript Confidential  .Net Developer Responsibilities: Analyzing user requirements and specifications Designed windows forms and coded business logic. Responsible for all the deliverables with respect to my module Unit Testing and Peer Testing Environment: C#, ASP.Net, SQL Server, JavaScript, Ajax Confidential   Programmer Responsibilities: Interacting with client in requirement gathering. Designed windows forms and coded business logic Created reports using Crystal Reports Done Unit & System Testing Created Installer packages using Microsoft startup projects. User Acceptance Test and production rollout Environment: C#.Net, SQL Server 2005 and Crystal Reports 