SUMMARY 9 years of experience as SQL Developer, SSIS Developer, and SSRS Developer wif good experience in SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2005 of healthcare, telecom, insurance, banking, Transportation and Education, Manufacturing domain. Extensive experience in business requirement gathering, data analysis, scoping, documentation (business requirement, functional specification, use case, business process flows, gap analysis, Test plan, test cases, user/training documentation etc.), reporting, designing UI Mockups, conductingUAT and end user training. Conversant wif all phase of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) involving Systems Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation. Worked in Agile - scrum methodology. Extensive experience in MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008 R2Business Intelligence in SQL Server Integration Services, SQL Server Reporting Services, and SQL Server Analysis Services. Strong experience inSQL Development,ETL developmentusing Microsoft SQL Server Integration Services(SSIS), Business Intelligence delivery using Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Services(SSAS)and Reporting solutions using Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services(SSRS). Strong experience working wif BCP, DTS, SSIS packages, creating jobs and linked servers for MS SQL Server/Sybase databases. Highly proficient in using T-SQL for developing complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Tables, Views, User Functions, User profiles, Relational Database Models and Data Integrity, SQL joins and Query Writing. Expert in creating, configuring and fine-tuning ETL workflows designed in DTS and MS SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS). Experience in creating Jobs, Alerts, SQL Mail Agent and Scheduled SSIS Packages. Expert in Developing SSIS Packages to Extract, Transform and Load (ETL)/DTS data into the data warehouse from Heterogeneous databases such as Oracle, DB2, Sybase and MS Access. Expert in Creating and Deploying SSRS Reports on the portal for user accessibility. Experienced in writing Parameterized Queries for generating Tabular reports, Formatting report layout, Sub reports using Global Variables, Expressions, Functions, Sorting the data, Defining Data Source and subtotals for the reports using SSRS . Hands-on in development ofDrill down ReportsinSSRSand Generateddaily, weekly and monthly reportsfor the manager. TECHNICAL SKILLS RDMS:  MS SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008 R2/2005, ORACLE 10g/9i, PL/SQL, MS Access 2000/XP/2007 Database Tools/Utilities:  SSRS, SSIS, Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, Data Transformation Services, Replication, Jobs and Task Creating and Scheduling, Analysis Services, Crystal Reports 9 Programming Languages:  T-SQL, PL/SQL, Visual Basic 6.0, VB.NET, ASP.NET Operating Systems:  Windows 2000/2003 Server, Windows NT Designing Tool:  Visio and Rational Rose Source Control Tool:  Microsoft Visual Source Safe, TFS, SVN. Others:  FrontPage, Dreamweaver, MS Office PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Baton Rouge, LA Senior SQL Server BI Developer/DBA Responsibilities: Writing SQL Server objects using Transact-SQL (T-SQL script) (Store Procedure, Functions, Triggers, performance tuning at code level and etc.) Analyzing data flow from application level to database level. ( example: users request, they were not able to see data in application, so we need to analyze both application and database code to fix the issue ) Debug application level bugs, analyzing application error to provide solution as production support. Working for query, store procedure performance enhancement. Upgrading, Migration, Configuration and deployment of various type of SSRS Reports Create, Enhancement, Change request, Email Subscription and user distribution list for SSRS reports. Creating on demand Store procedure and report as per user requests. Creating Integration Package using SSIS. Upgrading, Migration, Configuration and deployment of various type of SSIS Packages and Projects. Environment: SQL SERVER 2008/2014/2016 , Visual Studio 2008/2013/2015/2017 , TFS 2013SQL Server Data Tools, Query Analyzer, and Visio, as well as the entire Microsoft Office suite .Net Frame work, C# and VB.Net Confidential, Gastonia, NC Senior SQL Server BI Developer Responsibilities: Work wif business units to gather requirements, understand business needs/objectives and recommend the appropriate BI solution. Create Technical and Functional design documentation. Assist wif user training and provide manuals for using the new Dashboards, Scorecards and Standardized Reporting. Build SQL Server data warehouse. Delivered advanced/complex ETL solutions. Senior level follow-up for technical issues and serve as first level contact for all maintenance/support issues. Create ETL processes to populate summary data structures and analysis cubes. Relational database and high performance T-SQL development methodologies, designing and building complex data warehouses and cubes from multi-data sources for business consumption. Historical Oracle data migration to SQL Server and top of load ETL processed data Validated all project load relevant data as UAT data wif Oracle data Creating SSRS reports MTD and MTY and other attribute basis parameter. Relation and star-schema databases of direct SSIS, SSAS, and SSRS development work to build data warehouse, extracting and loading data in to destination. To implement DW standards and centralized ETL logging and Data analysis of relational database structures Migrated all data stage ETL process to SSIS by creating complex ETL packages SSIS Project parametrization to run in multiple enviourenment. Apply data warehouse design best practices, Relational and star-schema database designs and testing concepts including test plan implementation, test coverage, etc. To provide time estimates for project management principals and Worked both independently and participate as a member of a cross-functional team Applied user security for the Business Intelligence application Documenting the whole project life cycle Using BAAN and SQL source to SAP data Migration . Worked on parameterized report and email Subscription jobs. Environment: Windows Server 2012R2, SQL SERVER 2008/2012/2014/2016 , Visual Studio 2013/2015, IBM Info Shere Data Stage Designer and Quality Stage 9.1, Oracle 8i and Cognos 10, Notepad++ and BAAN, SQL Server Data Tools, Query Analyzer, and Visio, as well as the entire Microsoft Office suite Confidential, Tallahassee FL Senior SQL Server/ SSIS Developer/DBA Responsibilities: Responsible for decomposing the data access layer, logical database design, and characterizing the physical database. Examine how the database is configured and maintained, what standards were applied, the level of documentation of data dictionary. Examine the configuration and overall design of databases as they relate to application performance. dis includes the analysis of any prior performance results and comparison to FLDOE performance expectations. Data Storage Configuration Document Data Model Design Document Data model design document Map of attributes and relationship between data objects Using ER studio and other FLDOE recommended data modeling tool to reverse engineer the data model. The data model will include tables, columns, and constraints as input, covering the entities and relationships between tables. Document the attributes and other business language terms not extracted during the reverse engineering process. Conduct interviews wif FLDOE stakeholders to gather logical information not available in the physical database. Review the deliverable wif FLDOE stakeholders for completeness. Integration Services Configuration Document Creating MS Visio diagram of SSIS packages for each step of control flow and dataflow tasks. Environment: MS SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2012,Visual Studio 2008/2012/2013 , MS Excel, TFS as source control tool, Data Modeling and designing Tools ER Studio, MS Visio, SharePoint Confidential, Tallahassee, FL  Senior SQL Server, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS Developer /Data analyst/DBA Responsibilities: Use T-SQL for developing complex stored procedures, triggers, tables, user functions, relational database models and data integrity, SQL joins and query writing. Debugging existing stored procedures and database objects and solve problems Configuring, managing and supporting production database environments - including the ability to diagnose complex performance, configuration and operational issues and construct recommendations to the client Developing stored procedures thorough knowledge of indexes and review execution plans of the queries. Developing complex and efficient database queries using query tuning, index statistics as maintenance. Plan, coordinate, and execute data conversion activities such as data mapping and data conversion programming to support data migrations between systems and Migration of SQL Agent jobs to VB Script Design and develop complex ETL services using SSIS & reports using SSRS. Diagnose and troubleshoot ETL interface issues, complex reports and data analyses Designing and scheduling complex SSIS Packages for transferring data manually from multiple data sources to SQL server Creating SSIS package to load data/information using Execute SQL Task, for each loop container, Data flow task, Send mail task Used various SSIS tasks such as Conditional Split, Derived Column, Aggregate, Pivot Transformation, and Slowly Changing Dimension etc. which did Data Scrubbing, including data validation checks during Staging, before loading the data into the Data warehouse Developing, maintaining and deploying complex SSRS reports. Contribute to infrastructure migration projects, incl. SQL server upgrades, database code migrations, exploring and migrating services to the cloud, increasing automation of development, test, and production environments. Define and enforce acceptable performance and quality benchmarks for a variety of activities, including ETL, ad-hoc queries, and data extracts. Collaborate wif team mates and business partners to clarify requirements, interpretation of test results, and data quality issue Analysis of different database and their table growth issue to provide solution for database space issue. Worked on User Administration Application, use cases and SSIS packages functional and technical design documentation. Requirements & Change request Analysis, defect fixing User creation and assigning role, providing permission and filtering unused Users and Logins Resolving issue of failed SQL Agent jobs across multiple server Monitoring systems for performance and availability Proposing improvements and tuning databases for optimal efficiency Monitoring database backups and recovery of databases. Environment: MS SQL Server 2008r2,Data Modeling Tools, Visual Basic/VBScript, ASP.NET, .Net, C#, Excel (including VBA), Agile software development, Notepad++Ignite 8 Confio, SVN as source control tool Confidential, Bellevue WA Senior SQL Server, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS Developer /Data analyst/DBA Responsibilities: Developed and modified complex stored procedure based processes supporting ETL processes in a Data Warehousing environment as well as creating reports in Reporting Services and other data related tasks Worked wif customers and/or analysts to define and/or review business requirements for new ETL processes and reports. Design and develop ETL processes and reports that meet team standards and use consistent methodology and development approach. Performed comprehensive unit testing of all work As part of the rotating DBA responsibility - ownership of all processes running on the Database servers and respond to issues, as well as performed proactive performance tuning, data archiving, and identified any areas where we can optimize of processes and environment Created and maintain technical designs, data dictionaries, and systems operations documentation. Worked for production support as well as development support of Supply Chain Operation. Completed different type of break fix and loaded business data for reporting services Performed on data validation before loading different type of data files on daily basis as per defined by business user and worked wif monthly new project deployment Used SSIS to transform and load data into SQL database via FTP from XML files, MS Excel as source data SQL Enhancement/New Report by adding new data source system for production and scheduled job for the process Worked for Functional and Technical design to speed up the process and query optimization. Completed change request work to load data wif extra columns to understand details data and started new import source to process the data. Worked for Data Truncation and reload as per the requirement to change in import for data quality Executes dashboard and automation for repetitive processing tasks, as well as offers continued support to upgrade and modify automation. Environment: MS SQL Server 2008r2, SAP, BMC Remedy,Data Modeling Tools, Visual Basic/VBScript, ASP.NET, C#, Excel (including VBA), Oracle, Hyperion Essbase, Agile software development (TDD, XP, Notepad++ Confidential Franklin lakes, NJ SQL, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS DEVELOPER/Data analyst Responsibilities: Created new Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers using T-SQL to migrate the data from various tables as well as various databases Created complex views by joining more TEMPthan 20 tables from different SQL instances using Linked Server Designedand developed SSIS (ETL) packages to validate, extract, transform and load data from OLTP system to the Data warehouse and Report-Data mart. Created SSIS package to load data from Flat File to Data warehouse and Report-Data mart usingLookup, Fuzzy Lookup, Derived Columns, Condition Split, Aggregate, Pivot Transformation, and Slowly Changing Dimension. Used various SSIS tasks such as Conditional Split, Derived Column etc. which did Data Scrubbing, including data validation checks during Staging, before loading the data into the Data warehouse. Applied various data transformations like Slowly Changing Dimension, Aggregate, Sort, Multicasting, Conditional Split, Derived column in SSIS. Developed and deployed data transfers packages using SSIS, also maintained the jobs running on Servers. Responsible for creating database objects like table, Views, Store Procedure, Triggers, Functions etc. using T-SQL to provide structure to store data and to maintain database efficiently. Created SSIS Packages to perform filtering operations and to import the data on daily basis from the OLTP system, DSR to SQL server. Responsible for implementation of data viewers, SSIS Logging, error configurations for error handling the packages. Responsible for managing BI environment, which includes Business model, Data Model, Data sources, ETL tools, target data warehouse, Data marts, OLAP analysis and Reporting tools. Designed, deployed, and maintained of various SSRS Reports in SQL Server 2008 R2. Wrote Parameterized Queries for generating Tabular reports and Sub reports using Expressions, and Functions, Sorting the data, Defining Data sources and Subtotals for the reports using SSRS 2008 R2. Defined report layouts including report parameters and wrote queries for drill down reports using SSRS 2008 R2. Developed complex reports using multiple data providers, user defined objects, aggregate aware objects, charts, and synchronized queries. Administered interface to organize reports and data sources, schedule report execution and delivery, and track reporting history using SSRS 2008 R2. Responsible for the Performance tuning of the SQL Commands wif the use of the SQL Profiler and Database Engine Tuning Wizard. Applied various Created Tabular reports, Cross Tabs, Drill down, Charts, Functions and Maps using SSRS. Customized reports by adding Filters, Calculations, Prompts, Summaries and Functions. Created reports to retrieve data using Stored Procedures that accept parameters. Developed Report Models using report builder and distributed reports in multiple formats using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) in Business intelligence development studio (BIDS). Created Alerts for successful or unsuccessful completion of Scheduled Jobs. Environment: SQL Server 2008 R2/2005/2000, T-SQL, Agile-Scrum, SSRS, SSIS, Teradata, DB2 UDB 9.x, Visio, EXCEL, HTML, JavaScript Confidential, NJ  SQL Server Developer /Data analyst/ SSIS, SSRS, SSAS developer Responsibilities: Gathering requirements, Analysis, Design, functional & technical specification, Coding, testing and Document preparation. Support Data team and QA team for data extraction and reporting jobs. Responsibilities include Database Design and Creation of User Database. Logical, Physical Database design Created complex SQL queries for data extraction and reporting Designed and wrote stored procedures, functions using T-SQL Supported application written in Oracle PL/SQL and converted into T-SQL packages. Created data extraction ETL jobs using SSIS, DTS, extracting data from MS ACCESS, Oracle and MS Excel and loading into SQL Server Databases. Creation of backend SQL Server TABLES, INDEXES, VIEWS. Scheduling Jobs and Alerting using SQL Server Agent. Created T-SQL Stored procedures, Functions and Triggers Running DBCC checks and fixing data corruption in Application databases Created reports using SSRS (SQL Server reporting services). Created matrix, reports, drill down reports and developed reports wif graphs using SSRS. Performed tuning, cube Partitioning, dimension design including hierarchical and Slowly Changing Dimensions. Worked on enterprise reporting lifecycle. Created Ad-hoc reports, monthly, weekly reports. Transformed data from various data sources using OLEDB Developed Various Operational, drill-through and drill-down reports using SSRS. Performing query plans and making sure each and every query is using appropriate indexes. Data transfers between various servers using BCP and DTS. Implementing DTS Packages for transferring data. Wrote SSIS scripts for data transfer. Created Test cases, Test Plan, and Test conditions for QA testing. Supported the QA team for Data validation, Data extraction and SQL Query optimization. Developed custom reports using SSRS/SQL Server BI studio. Decided upon the locking strategy that could be used for various batch Programming structure & Transactions. Used Performance Monitor and SQL Profiler to optimize queries and enhance the performance of database servers. Used MDX queries for pre calculated measures. Created report Model on SSAS cubes as well as changing default configuration on existing cubes Environment: SQL Server 2005, T-SQL, SSAS,SSRS, Oracle 10g, Teradata, PL/SQL,MS ACCESS, C#.NET, VB.NET, VBA, XML, BCP, DTS, Windows 2003/2000(Advanced Server), EXCEL, Crystal reports, Windows 2003 advanced Server. Confidential, New York  SQL Programmer SSIS/SSRS Responsibilities: Involved in all the phases of SDLC. Have performed the team supervision in the absence of project manager more TEMPthan two times and had completed the task successfully. Filtered bad data from legacy system using complex T-SQL statements, and implemented various types of Constraints and Triggers for Data Consistency using SQL Server 2005 Documented the Stored Procedures and User Defined Functions (UDF) for future references and maintenance. Used DDL and DML Triggers, Stored procedures to check the Data Integrity and verification at early stages before calling them. Used SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and its tools to Extract, Transform and Load data into Data Warehouse. Developed, deployed and monitored SSIS Packages Creating SSIS Package configurations for executing in different environments. Enabled Check points in SSIS package. Created break points in order to view the status of data, variables and over all status of SSIS package. Extensively involved in designing the SSIS packages to export data of flat file source to SQL Server database. Enhancing and deploying the SSIS Packages from development server to production server. Developed and Deployed different types of Reports like List, Matrix, and Chart and Sub Reports etc. Designed and developed parameterized reports, linked reports, matrix and tabular reports wif drill down, drill through and drop down menu option using SSRS. Extensive use of Import/Export wizard to convert T- SQL Queries, Data and Reports from different forms like XML file, MS Excel file, TTF file, PDF file and other formats to SQL data type and Vice versa. Created/ Maintained clustered/ non clustered Indexes for fast and efficient reporting process. Used SSRS to create interactive reports wif an ability to drill down into details. Create OLAP cubes wif SSAS based on multidimensional database wif star schema or snow flake schema Extensive experience using Data Mining tools in Microsoft Analysis Services (SSAS). Extensively involved in the SSAS storage and partitions and Aggregations, Calculation of queries wif MDX, Data Mining Models, developing reports using MDX and T-SQL. Built MDX queries and Data Mining Expression (DMX) queries for Analysis Services & Reporting Services. Created several MDX queries according to business requirements. Created MDX script for representing Cube Calculation using SSAS. Responsible for General Database Administration and Performance tuning. Environment: Windows XP Professional (SP2), SQL 2005, SQL Profiler, SSIS 2005, SSAS 2005, SSRS 2005, TOAD. 