SUMMARY Experience in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle and Agile methodologies involving Analysis, Design, Development and Maintenance of Business Applications using Oracle Relational Database Management System Experience as Oracle Developer (application design, development, performance tuning and problem troubleshooting) in OLTP and OLAP environments. Excellent skills in designing and development of applications using Oracle 11g/10g/9i, SQL, PL/ SQL good knowledge on Oracle tools like SQL * PLUS, scripts, and used TOAD in many development projects. Good understanding of Data Warehousing Design Methodology, Data Warehouse Concepts, Database design/architecture including both OLAP & OLTP data and complete lifecycle of project from design to development and implementation. Excellent SQL skills, experience writing complex queries and working with database objects like tables, views, sequences, synonyms. Expertise in developing advanced PL/ SQL code through various stored procedures, functions, cursors, triggers, packages and materialized views. Experience in Bulk Data loading using Oracle utilities like SQL Loader, External Tables, working on both OLTP and OLAP databases and creating performance benchmarks and generating SQL*Plus reports. Extensive experience in Query Performance Tuning by Analyzing tables, hints, DBMS Profiler, TKPROF, SQL Trace, Explain Plan, Bulk Collect feature, Materialized View, DBMS packages and exception handling, Global Temporary tables and Troubleshooting Oracle database issues. Good knowledge of Data Modeling using ETL tools, OLAP and OLTP tools, Star Schema, Snowflake Schema, and Entity - Relationship Diagrams. In depth knowledge of RDBMS concepts, with hands on exposure in the development of relational database environment using SQL and PL/ SQL using database tools like Toad, SQL Navigator. Good knowledge of UNIX shell scripting. Experience in Performance Tuning of SQL queries & Views using Explain Plan. Extensively worked on end-user requirements, analysis, systems study and deployment. Implemented shell scripts for automating day to day tasks. Supports and maintains user account information including rights, security, and system groups. Worked with XML files, SQL databases, minor modification of java code. Involved in designing and creating SQL Server tables. Experienced in writing database Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and Views in SQL Server 2005 and 2008 Good experience in methodologies like Agile and Scrum processes. Performed Database Validation and Integration Testing using SQL. Ability to learn and adapt quickly in a dynamic environment and Ability to work on multiple projects against aggressive deadlines. Excellent Communication, Writing, Presentation, Workforce Management, Interpersonal and Analytical skills, along with the ability to work on multiple projects and prioritize workload Self-starter can work independently as well as a good team player TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Java,UNIX shell scripting, HTML Databases: Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c, SQL Server 2008/2005, MySQL, SQL Developer Servers: Web Logic Tools: FileZilla, Toad, SQL*Plus, PL/ SQL, SSRS, Jenkins Operating Systems: Windows 98/NT/2000/XP, UNIX, Solaris PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Austin, TX Oracle PL/SQL Developer Responsibilities: Involved in various stages of SDLC like Requirement gathering, high level design, low-level design, Coding. Developed database objects including Tables, Clusters, Indexes, Views, Sequences, Packages, Triggers and Procedures to troubleshoot any database problems. Created SQL*Loader scripts to load data into the temporary staging tables. Involved in uploading of the data from flat files into Databases and Validated the Data with PL/ SQL procedures. Designed/developed tables, views, various SQL queries, stored procedures, function, complex PL/ SQL packages. Involved in PL/ SQL code review and modification for the development of new requirements Developed PL/ SQL code for various levels of front-end validations Worked on various Back End Procedures and Functions using PL/ SQL. Develop and maintain database objects like tables, views, materialized views, indexes, constraints, triggers, sequences, packages, procedures, functions etc. according to the proposed feature. Mapping the Field ids to their templates. Writing SQL, PL/ SQL code in their respective Excel format Metadata files with the required logics. Created the integrity constraints and database triggers for complex data validations Automated Quality Check tasks by creating PL/ SQL procedures, cursors, functions and dynamic SQL. Enhanced it with creating exceptions for error handling Written complex Oracle SQL queries with complexity using Inner/Outer joins, Union All, Intersect & Minus set operators. Writing Test Cases and creating Test Plan. Perform Unit testing to make sure if data is sent as per the requirement. Writing PL/ SQL blocks to test the flow involved in the business. Writing complex SQL queries using inline views, with-clause, sub-queries etc and tune those complex queries by looking at the Explain plan, setting optimizer hints, analyze stats on tables. Used Ref cursors to call select statements dynamically instead of calling them statically using cursors. Used 'XML Table' while parsing XML and inserting the data into database tables. Used Dynamic SQL and Execute immediate in stored procedures to perform DDL operations. Used collections when bulk collecting the data from cursors for large group of tables. Creating scripts to manage moving change sets from testing to the production environment. Supporting Production environment by working on production issues. Environment: Oracle 9i/10g, Oracle 11g, Oracle DB 11.2.02, PL/ SQL, SQL*Loader, TOAD, Java, HTML, MS Office. Confidential Oracle Consultant Responsibilities: 24x7 production support for several mission critical systems which utilize multiple Oracle databases Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) including Maintenance Support. Prepared reports indicating database health for support of daily database operations Installed Oracle 11g R2 and involved in upgradation of existing Oracle 10g R2 databases to 11g R2 Involved in testing of functional changes as per the client requirement Responsible for implementation of various software applications in various environments i.e EtE, Production Written sql queries to validate data in the database. Performed patching on Oracle Database Server 10g and 11g using Opatch utility Developed shell scripts for alerts for ORA- errors, backup and recovery, Import and export procedure Scheduled various jobs using UNIX Crontab utility Followed ITILv3 approach for IT Service Management Validated patches developed by development team before sending them in production Validated installation documentation issued by dev groups for various applications and their subsequent release to Data Centre Operations Provided required support to Dev Groups for trouble shooting AR’s and act as an interface between Dev Groups and Data Centre Operations Responsible for preparing roadmaps for releases in production Responsible for representing changes to be deployed in production in CAB’s. Responsible for post implementation reviews to minimize the number of AR’s Prepared KPIs and send them to all the teams to provide weekly status of the number of deployments and the corresponding AR’s. Environment: Oracle, Sun Solaris, WebLogic, Agile Methodology, SQL Server 2008/2005, SSRS, Eclipse, Toad, J2EE, MS-OFFICE 