SUMMARY Overall 6+ years of total IT experience in Databases and Systems Analysis in the domain of Retail and Non - profit which includes work experience in Big Data supporting Confidential ’s customers using Confidential Cloud Platform. Provide Daily/ weekly status report to Customer. 2 years of experience in Big Data Administration. Hands on experience in analyzing Log files for Hadoop and finding root cause. Experience on Commissioning, Decommissioning, Balancing, and Managing Nodes and tuning server for optimal performance of the cluster. Hands on experience in provisioning and managing Hadoop clusters on Confidential Cloud Platform Compute Engine instances. Involved in bench marking Hadoop/HBase cluster file systems various batch jobs and workloads. Analyze and Understand Requirements from customer and create high level documents. Experience with complete Software Design Lifecycle including design, development, testing and implementation of moderate to advanced complex systems. Create Build test plans and capture test results. Having experience with NoSQL DB MongoDB for Data Management. Expertise in SQL and PL/SQL programming. Experience in working in environments using Agile development. Technology Lead providing SQL Server DBA Prod support. Worked on different OS like UNIX /Linux and developed shell scripts. Created complex and sophisticated Ad-Hoc & Canned Reports using Webi drilldown, slice and dice features using Business Objects. Effective problem-solving skills and outstanding interpersonal skills. Ability to work independently as well as within a team environment. Driven to meet deadlines. Ability to learn and use new technologies quickly. Excellent communication, presentation and interpersonal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Hadoop Framework:  Hdfs, Map Reduce, Kafka, Hive, Spark NoSQL Databases:  HBase, MongoDB Programming Language:  C++, C#, Python, Java, HTML Microsoft (Productivity Tools):  MS Office, MS Project, MS Visio, MS Visual Studio Databases:  MS SQL, MySQL Operating Systems:  Windows 7/10, Ubuntu, Red Hat, CentOS Linus Scripting:  HTML scripting, Shell WEB Servers:  JBOSS, HTTP web server IDE:  NetBeans, Eclipse, Visual Studio PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Big Data Specialist Confidential - Las Vegas, NV Responsibilities: Provided technical support to IT and Software Engineers from many multi-billion-dollar companies, government agencies and non-profit organizations using Confidential Cloud Platform products. Assisted in configuration of Identity Access Management for various multi-national corporations. Troubleshoot BigQuery issues narrowing down to network or API/Client Libraries related. Troubleshoot Machine Learning tools such as Speech API, Vision API, Translation API and requesting access to customers for using GPUs and TPUs. Recommended Storage and Virtual Machine types for customers depending on their use cases. Troubleshooting ETL pipelines submitted using Apache Spark and Hadoop services. Identified and documented product bugs and feature requests and work with internal support teams as well as customers to implement effective solutions. Worked closely with internal support teams to improve cloud products at a senior level, suggesting and making changes to the product code. Provided solutions and guidance to users through public forums (third party and Confidential -owned). Troubleshoot Cloud SQL queries supporting MySQL and PostgreSQL. Reproduce and troubleshoot issues using Java, Python, PHP, C#, Ruby APIs and Client Libraries along with REST and gRPC references. Supported and troubleshot log activities using Kafka. Engage with Confidential Engineers on daily basis, report bugs/issues and escalate cases requiring advanced troubleshooting and backend fixes. Used Linux and Windows virtual machines mirroring customer environment to reproduce issues. Environment: Java, Python, Node.js, GO, Tensorflow, Hadoop, Spark, Cloud SQL (MySQL, PostgreSQL), REST, gRPC, JSON, C# Database Administrator Confidential Responsibilities: Gathered requirements from existing users to customize sites and reports. Supported database to maintain data propagation across the organization based on data capture, data processing, reporting and analytics, data backup and recovery, data access/conflict resolution and data integrity needs while minimizing redundancy. Followed the ITIL processes as documented in resolving issues and changes on the system. Built front-end webpages for new clients to use Efforts-To-Outcome (ETO) system. Reported to Provincial government on any new non-profit organization additions to the database. Conducted vendor meetings to track progress and escalate any issues. Maintained database system with very low-down time. Created custom reports using SAP Business Objects, performance tuned reports to run more efficiently. Train more than 100 new employees and team leads from 25+ agencies under our organization. Acted as a backup for Systems Analyst, troubleshooting any system/server issues. Managed security of both database and systems in the organization. Managed Identity & Access of users allowed to use the ETO system. Installed and configured Hadoop services Hdfs, Mapreduce and Yarn. Responsible for migrating the Hdfs data and databases. Day to day responsibilities includes solving Big Data issues and providing instant solution to reduce the impact and documenting the same and preventing future issues. Evaluated new software for the organization. Environment: ETO system, Hadoop, SQL, XML, HTML/DHTML, SAP BusinessObjects, Slack, Asana and GoToMeetings, Windows 10, Windows 7, Windows Server 2016, Windows Server 2012. Systems Analyst Confidential Responsibilities: Streamlined business processes for HR teams to optimize the system availability and reduce the number of issues with the system. Issues were decreased by nearly 50% after changing business processes and conducting user training. Gathered requirements and upgraded Kronos HR application to maintain vendor support. Project was delivered successfully and coordinated with vendors for application to use load-balancing on multiple servers. Enhanced Finance processes and engaged vendor to fine tune Infor M3 ERP system to improve efficiency and provide fixes in timely manner. Documented processes, training documents, test plans, troubleshoot guides for applications and used them to train employees. Trained, mentored and supported 2 newly hired employees as Lead Systems Analyst. Owned and maintained in-house HR/Salary Admin applications such as Salary Admin that is built on ASP.Net and gathered requirements from HR business partners for any changes to the application. Managed Identity & Access management and security on various HR and Payroll applications including Saba LMS, Salary Admin, Kronos, A/S 400 and iCIMS. Written CRUD queries using MS SQL to fix data issues and perform mass updates on HR/Payroll systems such as Kronos and Infor M3 ERP databases and saved about 8 hours of manual typing. Optimized and Automated interfaces between HR applications (Kronos, AS/400 and Infor M3 ERP). Designed, created and edited HTML content such as certifications using HTML for Saba LMS system. Maintained interfaces between ERP, HR and Payroll systems and maintained 99.9% up-time. Developed, maintained test scripts and performed test planning, test design, test coordination, test environment set-up, unit testing, batch testing, test execution and reporting, system testing during projects and system updates. Supported multiple applications including HR, Payroll, Benefits and Finance team applications such as Kronos which runs on JBOSS service. Provided hardware / software support including some network troubleshooting issues. Used Excel as test management tool to maintain and update status of test scenarios. Created and stored documents in SharePoint. Received “Night on the Town” recognition award for excelling as a technical lead on a HR update project. Provide after-hours support for the SQL database/app infrastructure when required Environment: MS-SQL, MySQL, Used: Microsoft SQL Server Studio 2008 & 2012, MySQL, Infor M3 ERP, Kronos, JBOSS, ChangeGear Ticketing System, iCIMS, AS/400 green screen terminal, Saba LMS, SharePoint, Microsoft Office 365, Citrix, VPN, Windows Server 2008 & 2010 and Visio. 