SUMMARY Analyst with vast experience in analyzing data for driving business solutions using R Python, Tableau, SAS and Power BI. Skilled in understanding business operations and analytics tools to extract insights and actionable information from data using broad array of tools and technology. Experienced in analytics and reporting for clients in Retail, Logistics, Consumer Product Goods, E - Commerce and Banking domain. Specialized in end-to-end process of data analytics life cycle including data extraction, data cleaning, statistical modelling and data visualization with Big Data. Data-driven and highly analytical with working knowledge of statistical modelling approaches and methodologies such Clustering, Segmentation, Dimensionality Reduction, Regression Analysis, Hypothesis testing, Time Series Analysis, Decision trees, Random Forests, and Machine learning. Proficient in creating Tableau dashboards, reports with interactive views, trends and drill downs along with user level security, parameterized and Ad-Hoc Reporting. Expertise in creating interactive dashboards, multiple sheet workbooks with different types of graphs and charts such as Bar chart, Line chart, Pie chart, Scatter plot, Gantt chart, Bubble chart, Histogram chart, Bullet Chart, Heat maps, Highlight table, Treemaps, Box-and-whisker plot s using Tableau.  Knowledgeable in Apache Spark and developing data processing and analysis algorithms using Python and Python libraries such as Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, Scikit-Learn. Expertise in Python and Python Web Framework Django. Worked on interactive visualization using JS package, D3.js integrated with R Shiny. Hands-on experience in using R libraries such as Missforest for missing value imputation and data.table to perform data manipulation operations and packages such as ggplot2, car, randomforest, forecast and many more to perform data operations like data modeling, data wrangling, transformation and statistical analysis. Knowledgeable in various ETL processing on various data sources such as SQL server, Teradata, MS Excel etc. and cloud technologies to extract, manipulate and archive data for further analyses on tools such as Informatica and Pentaho. Specialized in writing SQL, PL/SQL scripts to implement Stored Procedures, functions and triggers for reporting, data analysis, ETL validations. Scripted complex SQL Queries to fetch data from different tables in remote databases using joins, database links and Bulk collects. Familiar with concepts of Data Marts, Operational Data Store (ODS), OLAP, Dimensional Data Modeling, Star Schema Modeling, Snow-Flake Modeling for fact and dimensions tables using Analysis Services. Collaborated with the team of Business Analysts' for requirements gathering based on provided business requirements, defined detailed Technical specification documents, performed unit testing and code reviews for peers on the team. Contributed to the documentation of the test plan, test conditions and test cases to be used in testing based on business requirements, technical specifications and/or product knowledge. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: R, SQL, PL-SQL, Python, JS, HTML, SAP-ABAP, PostgreSQL Tools: R Studio, R Shiny, Tableau Desktop, SAS, SAP ECC 6.0 Databases: SQL Server, Mongo DB, SAP-HANA, Teradata IDEs: NetBeans, PyCharm, Sublime Text, R Studio Python Packages: Scikit-Learn, NumPy, Matplotlib, pandas, plotly, d3.js R Packages: missforest, dplyr, ggplot2, data.table, forecast, zoo, knitr, stringr Cloud Technologies: Google Cloud, AWS S3, Redshift ETL Tools: SQL Server, Tableau Server, Informatica MS Office Tools: Excel, Access, PowerPoint, SharePoint PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE DATA ANALYST Confidential  Responsibilities: As a part of Consumer Analytics team, implemented ecommerce tools that leverage data to drive in-market implementation of ecommerce 4P initiatives. Performed data aggregation and clustering to create a time series forecasting model using ARIMA to prepare annual budget of current accounts at the microsegment level with a MAPE (Mean Absolute Percentage Error) of 12%. Designed a model to reduce churn rate by promoting purchase of products positively correlated to customer loyalty. The model helped reduce attrition/ brand switching by 15% and increased cross-sell penetration by 6% (measured using A/B testing). Used transactional data to build a customer churn model with an accuracy of 80%, using logistic regression and random forest, to predict the churn probability for each customer. This increased customers’ worth by 3.2%. Calculated customer lifetime value (CLV) to identify most valuable clients worthy of elite status, exceptional service/handling, and profiling for key driver identification. Responsible for verifying business requirements, ETL Analysis, ETL develop and design of the flow and the logic for the Data warehouse using Informatica. Engineered solutions to close in-market gaps; driving market outperformance across ecommerce channels and data driven insights. Created cascading filters to filter the data within the hierarchy and prompt to specific filter that is applied by cascading. Implemented ML classification and regression algorithms in Python for consumer data analyses using Python libraries such as Pandas, Numpy and Scikit-Learn. Build reports to perform cost benefit analysis for Confidential ’s to identify both underperforming and potential retail store locations. Leveraged advanced features of Tableau such as calculated fields, parameters, and sets to support data analysis and data mining. Created Tableau scorecards, dashboards using stack bars, bar graphs, scattered plots, geographical maps, Gantt charts using show me functionality. Worked on KPI scorecards and other interactive visualizations such as heat maps, tree views, circle views, bar charts with Tableau integrated with Python. Combined multiple data sources using blending in Tableau to keep track of sensor data, operator inputs, and real-time systems all in one dashboard. Guided ETL developers with the analysis and resolution of data related problem tickets. Provided Production support to Tableau users for published reports on web servers. Environment: R Studio, R Shiny, Tableau 10.2, SQL server MS-Excel, Informatica, Python, Scikit -Learn, Pandas,Numpy, ggplot, data.table. Data Analyst - INTERN Confidential  Responsibilities: Assist in gathering and refining business, data, and system specifications from business users and translate to database developers and analyst Conduct Analyses and create reports on student data and provide insights by implementing Regression models. Implement ML algorithms such as classification and segmentation algorithms for perform analysis on student performance records. Extract and synthesize complex information to prepare briefings, read-ahead and other materials for mixed audiences. Build reports and briefings on findings to detail and demonstrate study support of transition plan to future architecture. Analyze datasets and prepare reports and briefing material related to experiment results. Analyzing performance bottlenecks of current system in various areas - Report execution, Data Extraction and design issues. Environment: s: Tableau 9.0, MS Excel, R, SAS   SAP - sr. Data analyst / abap developer Confidential  Responsibilities: Implemented continuous improvement program to help deliver new functionalities to the Confidential customers according to their expectations. Evolved traditional support models by building multi-component and multi-player strategies that provide standardized support. Designed solution to address non-IT issues like providing round-the-clock support and help resolve the cultural challenges while providing support to Latin America region while containing costs and maintaining the quality of its IT services. Part of team to devise a strategy that efficiently supports the SAP users across Central and South America, to aid Confidential ’s business expansion. Provide support and innovative solutions for technical maintenance and configuration with high-touch regional presence and local language capabilities to enable new functionalities for Confidential ’s internal customers. Worked as BI - Tech Consultant to provide technical expertise for BI/BW team. Involved in full life cycle implementation, right from requirement gathering, blue printing, development, testing, go-live and post go-live support. Business Analyst in SAP SD for ECC 6.0 E2E implementation and Production Support. Handled SAP Production Support in onsite offshore model. Worked on migrating data flows and reports to BW on HANA environment while improving the architecture, performance and re-usability of objects. Worked on change requests, developing interfaces which involved direct interaction with Client and understanding the business requirements. Environment: s: SAP ECC 6.0, SAP BW 6.0, SCM, FICO, OM, MS Sharepoint, MS Excel Confidential Responsibilities: Integrated business systems into single business module using IDOCs and Interfaces. Optimized and converged large datasets and processes for global consumer markets. Performed tasks like data mining, processing and restoring archived data for improved accessibility and efficient analytical reporting. Provided end to end executing solution across the supply chain to meet strategic and economic goals. Managed and mentored team of 4 for smooth transition into deployment project. Knowledgeable in SAP modules like ERP, CRM, MM, FICO, BI, FI, Pricing, SD and SCM. Worked as SharePoint admin to maintain project documentation, access authorization and perform version control. Environment: s: SAP ECC 6.0, SAP BW 6.0, SCM, FICO, OM, BI SD, MM, MS Excel, MS Sharepoint Confidential Responsibilities: Migrated 7 SAP operating companies (OPCOs) of Confidential to Legacy environment (AS/400) to accommodate the new business strategies. Deployed SAP-SCM solution for 7 RDBCs (Re-distribution centers) of NA region to strategically increasing sales by 7.4%. SAP experience includes industries in Retail, Consumer Product Goods, SCM. Worked on R/3 E2E Implementations, Roll Outs, Upgrade & Production Support. Responsible for data migration and conversion activities such extraction, transforming, migration and validating and reconciliation of data. Analyzed Incidents and rectified defects in the code, reports and forms to update them in HPQC, involved in change requests and defect fixing. Developed several custom tables, views, search help, print programs, and smart forms. Prepared comprehensive technical program documents including specifications, test conditions, test plans, test data. Provided technical solutions to various kinds of business gaps in areas of Sales & Distribution, Finance and Material Management. Documented FSD and TSD for the reports, enhancements and change request. Environment: s: SAP ECC 6.0, SAP BW 6.0, SCM, FICO, OM, SD, MM, Retail, CPG   Project intern Confidential  Responsibilities: Developed platform and DB independent CRM tool; Lead Management System (LMS) that bridged the gap between Sales and Marketing department to efficiently promote bank’s portfolio through customers’ financial profile analysis. Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, OOD (Object oriented Design) using UML. The LMS tool was designed to efficiently identify and classify leads into 3 categories viz: hot, warm and cold to track their progress in the process of conversion from leads to prospects there by helping Sales and Marketing teams to access the results for better strategic planning towards building strong business clientele. lCreated mock-ups in VB and used Java to connect to DB2 in the backend. Environment: s: Java, Visual Basic, DB2, UML modeling 