SUMMARY Over 7+ years of wide - ranging experience in Database Design, Development, Implementation, Debugging and Testing of software applications to support reporting and Business Intelligence initiatives in Healthcare, Insurance Academic and Finance industries etc. Proficiency in Microsoft Business Intelligence technologies like MS SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), MS SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) and MS SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Experience in integration of various data sources like SQL Server, Salesforce, Oracle, Access DB, DB2 and Flat File, Excel File. Import Data into Power BI using different ETL methods, SQL Azure, Direct Query, Restful API Generator, build relational model with in Power BI. Highly proficient in packages to extract, transform and load data (ETL) using SSIS, designed packages which are utilized for tasks and transformations Data Conversion and Pivot tables. Used transformations likeSCD,CDC, Data Conversion, Conditional Split, Merge Join, Derived Column, Lookup, Cache Transform and Union all etc., to convert raw data into required data meeting the business requirements Extensively worked on Control Flow Tasks such as For each Loop Container, For Loop Container, Data Flow Task, File System Task, Script Task, Execute SQL Task, FTP Task, Execute Process Task, and Send Mail Task. Efficiently used Data Flow Tasks such as Excel Source, Flat File Source, OLE DB Source, Data Conversion, Lookup, Aggregate, Audit, Multi Cast, OLE DB Command, Sort, Union All, and Copy Column, Derived Column, Cleaning bad data, Validating data using Derived Column, Row Count, Excel Destination, Flat File Destination, OLE DB Destination, Raw File Destination, SQL Server Destination, Record Set Destination of the integration services (SSIS). Experience in transforming unstructured data from various data sources using SSIS like Conditional Split, Lookup, Merge Join and Sort. Experienced in writing Parameterized Queries for generating Tabular reports, Formatting report layout, Sub reports using Global Variables, Expressions, Functions, Sorting the data, defining data source and subtotals for the reports using SSRS 2008/2012/2014/2016. Experience in debugging the SSIS packages using breakpoints and checkpoints. Hands-on star schemas, snowflake schemas, dimensional modelling and reporting tools, operations Data Store concepts, Data Marts and OLAP technologies. Designed and implemented user defined hierarchies in SSAS including parent-child hierarchy. Expertise with SSRS (tabular reports, parameterized reports, drilldown, drill through, sub reports, charts etc.) Conversant with all phase of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) involving Systems Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation. Highly proficient in the use of SQL for developing complex stored procedures, triggers, tables, user profiles, user functions, relational database models and data integrity, SQL joins and query writing. Extensively worked on Table Design creating Clustered Indexes, Non Clustered Indexes, Primary key Foreign Key Relationships, Highly complex joins and SQL Scripts for Views and Materialized Views. Hands-on Deploying reports, creating report schedules and subscriptions. Managing and securing reports and Proficient in MS Office includes MS Excel, creating spread sheets, graphs and dashboard reports. Excellent skills in designing Logical and Physical Modeling using ERWIN Tool. Experience in using Star Team and Team foundation server for source control. TECHNICAL SKILLS Server Operating System: Windows 2003, 2008, 2012. Languages: C, C#, Pl/SQL, T-SQL Microsoft Technologies: C#.NET, ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET Web Technologies: HTML, XML, SharePoint 2010. Data bases: MS SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014/2016 , Oracle 10g BI Tools: SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS), Power BI Desktop. Development Tools: Visual Studio.NET 2008/2012/2013/2015/2017 Community Edition Database Query Tools: SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS), Visual Studio 2015, SQL Profiler, DQS, Toad for SQL server PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Tampa Sr.SQL BI Developer Responsibilities: CreatedSSISpackages to perform filtering operations and to import the data on daily basis from the legacy data sources to SQL Server 2016. Creating complex SQL scripts to transform legacy data in staging area using SSISpackages. ConfiguringSSISpackages for run time parameters and config files. UsedSSISfor Extracting and Merging of data from different source to single source. Scheduling Jobs to runSSISPackages in the night feed to DSS for fresh day data. CreatedSSISpackages to automate different FTP's files and emailing to different clients. CreatedSSISpackages included a variety of transformations, for example, Slowly Changing Dimensions, Look up, Aggregate, Derived Column, Conditional Split, Fuzzy Lookup, Multicast, and Data Conversion. Generated reports from SQL Server Database and OLAP data warehousing. Deployed Reports to Report Manager and Troubleshooting for any errors during in execution. Scheduled the Reports to run on the daily and weekly basis in Report Manager and email them to the directors and analyst to review in Excel sheet. Created Sub-Report, Matrix Report Tablix Report Drill down Report and Charts usingSSRS. Deployed and subscribe Reports usingSSRSto generate all daily, weekly and monthly reports. Build automated ETL processes in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) for the system. Designed a Power BI Data model with multiple Facts and Dimension Tables based on the requirement. Designed and Implemented analytics solutions using Power BI Dashboard and Reports. Utilized Power Query in Power BI to Pivot and Un-Pivot the data model for data cleansing. Created Page Level filters, Report level Filters, Visual level filters in Power BI according to the requirements. Participated in testing during the UAT (QA Testing). Mentored and monitored team development and status. Drop and recreate Index on the DSS System while migration data. Based on the business requirement written complex T-SQL queries to perform data and graph validation to make sure that the test results are matched. Designed Data flows, Workflows and jobs to load data from source to target. Created trace in SQL Profiler and used Data base engine tuning advisor for performance tuning on scripts and stores procedures. In-Depth knowledge of SDLC, understanding of various phases like Requirements, Analysis, Design, Development. And Testing. Reviewed many T-SQL issues using management studio for better performance. Environment: SQL Server 2014/2016, SQL Server Integration Services, Power BI, MS Excel 2016, Management Studio, SQL Profiler andSSRS. Confidential, Atlanta, GA Sr. SQL Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for gathering requirements for the new projects and creating the data flow model of the Business requirement with MS Visio 2013. Involved in integrating different Database Applications using SSIS packages. Creating SSIS packages that involves migration from legacy systems to centralized Database. Designed and tested packages to extract, transform and load data (ETL) using SSIS, Designed packages which are utilized for tasks and transformations such as Execute SQL Task, Mapping the right and required data from source to destination, Data Flow Task, Data Conversion, Foreach Loop Container. Expert in using the work flow canvas for multiple transformations of data and the use of different features like variables, package configurations, event handlers,errorloggingand check points to facilitate various complex ETL logics and specifications Deployed and uploaded the SSRS reports to SharePoint Server for the end users and involved in enhancements and modifications. Provide optimized views and queries for Business Objects reports Validate data before performing ETL transformations and load into SQL server database. Intensively worked on transformations like Derived column, Import column, Export column, Row count, Union all, Copy column, Lookup, Data Conversion with SSIS 2012. Usedtaskfactorycomponents and transformation like Upsert destination, Update batch transformation, Null Handler Transformation, Surrogate Key Transformation, Advanced Email and SMSTaskinSSISpackages Worked with Web Service task where some of the binary files will be converted into XML element to place in Message Broker queue. Involved in creating SSRS and power view reports. Implemented transformation mapping through BizTalk server with the help of Visual Studio to achieve data transformation from one type to another. Worked on Deployment of packages into Production servers and managed scheduled SQL jobs. Created stored procedures, Cursors, Joins in T-SQL. Manually documented each process and the flow of the package. Created Drill-down and Drill- through reports, also scheduled and managed weekly/monthly inspection and violation reports based on the business requirements. DesignedVBAmacros in Excel to automate data extraction and reporting. Created visualization reports and dashboards using Power BI desktop and published them to the Power BIService. Implemented Distributed Transaction Control for the SSIS packages and event handlers to keep track of error logs. Also to trigger emails about the failure using Email task. Designed and created Report templates, bar graphs and pie charts based on the inspection data. Environment: Microsoft SQL Server 2012, Microsoft Excel, SSIS/SSRS 2016/2012/2008 , Microsoft Office, MS VISO 2015, Profiler, Visual Source Safe, BIDS, C#.NET,VB, Visual Studio, MS BizTalk Server. Confidential MSBI/SSIS/SSRS/ SQL Developer Responsibilities: Prepared detailed design documents and documented it clearly while detailing the purpose of the project, source and target database structures, list of batch jobs, sub jobs and their roles, Business rules and assumptions involved in the project. Imported the data from flat files and were transformed and placed in DB2, Teradata Databases as they were the target databases. Assisted in production of OLAP cubes, wrote queries to produce reports using SQL Server 2008R2 Analysis Services (SSAS) and Reporting service (SSRS). Developed SQL scripts for data dump in the Database in SQL server, DB2, Teradata. Involved in maintaining Data consistency and Data Integrity using various constraints like Unique, Check, Primary Key and Default. Implemented Performance Tuning of T-SQL Statements effectively with SQL Profiler and Database Tuning Advisor. Designed SSIS packages using various control flow task like Data Flow Task, For Each Loop, Execute SQL Task. Actively involved in deploying and scheduling packages. Effectively implemented Data Extraction and Loading from OLTP onto staging with SSIS Packages. Worked with various Dataflow tasks like Character Map, Aggregate, ODE Command and Conditional Split while designing SSIS Packages. Assisted the organization in performing data compilation, mining and analysis required to evaluate the given data. Performed business data analysis and report creation in support of both ad hoc requests from the customer and to support new development and system maintenance. Research and investigate key business problems through quantitative analyses of utilization, healthcare and cost data. Provided and defend conclusions and recommendations to customer based on results of analysis. Maintained and enhanced healthcare reporting solutions to meet a wide range of business and system requirements. Exercise positive interpersonal communication skills and worked independently or with a small team on all phases of software development lifecycle. Environment: SQL Server 2008, Windows 2003/2007 server, SQL Server Configuration Manager, T-SQL, DTS, SSIS, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Profiler, TFS. Confidential MSBI/SSIS/SSRS/ SQL Developer Responsibilities: Communicated with the Business Users to understand the requirements. Created Drill reports for the Clean-up Activity followed in the company Created reports for calculating the number of hours scheduled and the calculations made for the payment. Generated periodic reports from the cube based on the statistical analysis of the data using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Created Drill-through, Drill-down, Cross Tab Reports and Sub-Report using Report Definition Language (RDL). Wrote queries using MDX Deployed and configured the reports in the Report Server. Experienced in designing the OLAP systems for data mart applications using SQL Server Analysis Services 2008 Used stored procedures and user-defined functions for different Reports. Wrote complex correlated sub queries to generate reports. Wrote User Defined Functions to encapsulate frequently and commonly used business logic making the system more modular, secured and extensible. Environment: SQL Server 2008, SSRS 2008, SSAS, Visual Studio 2008, XML, XSLT, MS Office and Visual Source Safe 