SUMMARY Over 6 years of strong experience in Tableau Development, SQL Server Database Development. Excellent experience in Data Analysis and Design, Development and Implementation of BI/Data Warehousing, Web - based Applications and Database projects using Tableau, Micro Strategy, etc. Excellent understanding of data warehouse specific Architecture, Design Procedures, ETL and workflow development, data cleansing and data quality validation. Expertise in latest BI Tools such as Tableau, Spotfire, Qlikview and Qliksense. Experience in complex BI Reports, Dashboards, Project Management, Change management, and root cause analysis, Resolution methods, Time/Cost/Budget Management. Experience with sheet objects including advanced charts, creating metrics, Trend lines, attributes, filters, reports dashboards, Incremental Loading/Refresh, complex calculations to manipulate data. Proficient in creating solution driven views and dashboards by developing different chart types including Heat maps, Geo maps, Symbol maps, Pie charts, Bubble charts, Funnel charts, Bar charts, Bullet graphs, Area charts, Scatter plots, etc. Using multiple measures like Individual Axes, Blended Axes and Dual Axes. Created Master library with dimensions and measures and implemented security in BI Applications at Document and server level. Developed applications in Tableau Desktop and shared the apps with the team using Tableau Public. Extensively built solution driven views and dashboards using techniques for guided analytics, interactive dashboard design, and visual best practices to convey the story inside the data using Tableau. Performed data analysis and visualization of metrics to help aid informed decision making and statement of work prioritization. Analyzed business process workflows and assisted in the development of ETL procedures for moving data from source to target systems. Experience in working with dirty data from various sources like SQL Server, Oracle, MS Access and Flat files etc., and performing data cleansing using ETL procedures. Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) implementing Waterfall, Agile & Scrum. Expertise in Data warehousing concepts like OLTP/OLAP system study, analysis and E-R modelling, developing database schemas like Star schema and Snowflake schema used in relational, dimensional, multidimensional data modeling. Extensively worked on Informatica Power Center transformations such as Source Qualifier, Lookup, Filter, Expression, Router, Normalizer, Joiner, Update Strategy, Rank, Aggregator, Stored Procedure, Sorter and Sequence Generator. Experience in working with complex SQL queries like Joins, Date functions, Inline functions and Sub-queries to generate reports. Experience in developing and debugging Stored procedures and Triggers. Flexible, enthusiastic and project-oriented team player with excellent communication skills with leadership abilities to develop creative solution for challenging requirement of client. TECHNICAL SKILLS Tools: Tableau, TIBCO Spotfire, Informatica, IBM Rational Rose, DQ Analyzer, JIRA. Databases: SQL Server, MS MySQL, MS Access, Oracle. Languages: SQL, C programming, VHDL Programming, MATLAB, Python. Operating System: Windows, iOS, MS DOS. MS office: Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, MS Access, OneNote, Project. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Tableau Developer / Data analyst Confidential, Little Rock, AR Responsibilities: Evaluate Provider level data to assess provider data quality, profiling the data and building data quality reports using DQ analyzer, SQL server, MS Excel. Assessing the data quality and consistency within each provider file and building a ranked list of different types of relationships that establish unique providers. Identifying other data sources that can enrich the relationship quality scores and documenting them. Building data quality reports for each provider file also a summary data quality report for all the provider files. Performed data extraction from Microsoft SQL server Relational Database. Validated source data for accuracy and correctness at multiple levels to maintain data consistency. Coordinated with subject matter expert to evaluate and track project objective and business requirements and suggested possible solutions and improvement strategies to address the data quality issues. Responsibilities included extraction, cleansing, joining and analyzing data using SQL queries, Excel Marcos. Drafted analysis documents and frameworks for future reference. Visualized data, built presentable dashboards and stories on tableau and presented it to a team of experts. Environment: SQL Server, DQ Analyzer, Tableau, JIRA, MS Access, MS Excel. Tableau Developer / Healthcare Data Analyst Confidential, Little Rock, AR Responsibilities: Reviewed records for completeness and accuracy to identify and resolve issues. Maintained data consistency and database integrity and attended team meetings to identify requirements for data loading and reporting. Performed data verification and validation using SQL queries. Worked closely with Quality Assurance team to maintain the data quality requirement of the joint commission. Built data analysis plan, strategies to solve business problems and help in complex decision making using Data Modeling. Strategically developed visually impactful dashboards in Tableau for data reporting. Determine key metrics and transform raw data into meaningful, actionable information through data extraction, interpretation and analysis. Involved in reviewing business requirements and analyzing data sources from Excel/Oracle SQL server for design, development, testing and production rollover of reporting and analysis projects within Tableau Desktop. Created views in Tableau Desktop that were published to internal team for review and further data analysis and customization using filter actions. Created heat maps showing current service subscribers by color that were broken into regions allowing business user to understand the data properly. Worked closely with business power users to create reports/dashboards using Tableau Desktop. Designed and developed various analytical reports from multiple data sources by blending data on a single worksheet in Tableau Desktop. Utilized advance features of tableau software to link data from different connections together on one dashboard and to filter data in multiple views at once. Created prompts, customized calculations, conditions and filters for various analytical dashboards. Created Geographical maps to show the details on which state were connected and converted charts into crosstabs for further underlying data analysis in MS excel. Blended data from multiple databases into one report by selecting primary keys from each database for data validation. Reviewed basic SQL queries and edited inner, left and right joins in Tableau desktop by connecting live/dynamic and static datasets. Scheduled data refresh on Tableau server for weekly and monthly increments based on business requirements. Environment: Tableau Server, Tableau Desktop, SQL server, MS Excel, Oracle DB2, JIRA. Tableau Developer/ Business Intelligence Analyst Confidential, Memphis, TN Responsibilities: Design, develop, test and maintain Tableau functional reports based on user requirements. Participated on business requirement document preparation. Involved in data validation of the results in Tableau by validating the numbers against the data in the database tables by querying the database. Interacted with business users and business analyst to understand the requirement and reviewed high-level design documents and functional specification document. Key advisor performance indicators using SQL scripts, on multiple projects, giving expert guidance on governance, reporting techniques and project management, performance improvement. Designed and optimized data connections, data extracts, schedules for background tasks and incremental refresh for weekly and monthly dashboard reports on tableau server. Worked on building queries to retrieve data into Tableau from SQL server and oracle, SQL developer and developed SQL statements for loading data from target database. Enhanced existing dashboards with new functionalities and tune ETL scripts for better performance. Developed user interactive sheets and reports as business needs and for writing SQL scripts to load the relevant data in Tableau applications. Created SQL stored procedures and views to fetch the data from database to build reports. Developed scripts for data reloading, mapping and transformation and maintained and updated the dashboard reports as required by the clients. Designed and developed various analytical reports from multiple data sources by blending data on a single worksheet in Tableau Desktop. Created views in Tableau Desktop that were published to internal team for further review and further data analysis and customization using filters and actions Environment: Tableau Server, Tableau Desktop, Spotfire, SQL server, MS Excel, MS Access Informatica. SQL Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Create, maintain and design company production data and DBMS based products which includes SQL coding, planning and documenting the system. Developed multiple automation tasks like SQL server Job agent, windows Task scheduler, scripting. Highly involved in mapping data from central repository to Oracle database, creating Visio diagrams, loading and maintaining data, and generating ad hoc reports. Provide support to end users and customers with software-related issues or problems as necessary. Support the goals of the Information system division and participate as a member of Information systems team. Generated reports on the daily basis according to client requirements using crystal reports. Excellent SQL developer skills, including stored procedures, indexed views, user defined functions, triggers and distributed triggers. Using SQL server import/export wizard and SSIS packages, loaded data from various sources like a flat file, excel and SQL server client to SQL server databases. Executed the tasks of creating innovative and logical solutions to solve complex issues. Worked closely with developers and end users to ensure user satisfaction and technical compatibility. Tuned SQL queries and modified crystal report queries. Determined alternatives for possible solutions and examined them by considering the business and technical suitability. Involved in documenting the modifications and intended functionalities of the interfaces. Developed ETL procedures to translate business rules and functionality requirements into ETL procedures. Gathering the requirements from the users and creating the reports as per the user requirements. Environment: SQL server, SSIS, Informatica, MS Excel. SQL Server Database Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Created logins, managed database objects like tables, views, stored procedures and indexes. Monitored SQL server performance using profiler, handling deadlocks, blockings and fine tuning long running queries that better results in efficient SQL processing. Design and implement data warehouse solutions for SQL server databases including replication strategy and Active-Active and Active-Passive clustering. Optimized queries that were taking long time to display desired result set. Created groups. Roles, users and assigning access privileges to users. Created new stored procedures and modifying existing ones as per business requirements. Performed data analysis to generate various trend reports. Environment: SQL Server, MS Access, MS Excel. 