SUMMARY Over 6+ years of experience in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) involving Analysis, Design, Development and Maintenance of Business Applications using Oracle Relational Database Management System. Proficient in the Data Manipulation using SQL for the retrieval of data from the Relational Database (inner joins, outer join, group by, order by, cursors etc.). Expertise in writing SQL Queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, Database Triggers, Materialized Views, SQL Trace on Oracle 10g/11g databases. Strong experience in developing SQL/PLSQL Scripts/Programs for Data Analysis mechanism Extensive development experience in data designing, mapping, loading data, Testing and Tuning databases. Extensive experience in Performance Tuning of SQL queries & Views using Explain Plan. Working knowledge of data extraction, transformation & loading without any tools (INFORMATICA, OWB) but using RDBMS and with INFORMATICA tool. Have some knowledge on SSIS. Experienced in developing batch programs by using PL/SQL and shell scripts and in using SQL*Loader for loading data from flat files into Oracle tables. Good capability of performance tuning, normalization and partitioning of data and indexing of partitioned tables. Worked on both Agile/Waterfall methodologies, updated daily/weekly testing status to PM, TM and the RM. Good experience in creating business universe and objects using SAP Business Objects client tools such as the Universe Design Tool and Web Intelligence. Performed the root cause analysis (RCA) for various environments. Experience in developing dashboards using Xcelsius and Tableau. Extensively worked with third party database tools like TOAD, SQL Navigator and SQL*PLUS. Good understanding of Relational database design and involved in developing various data models using ERWIN, ER/STUDIO and VISIO. Strong programming, debugging and problem - solving skills and ability to translate customer requirements into technical solutions by utilizing business insights. Extensive experience in working with standard Microsoft software applications like Word, Excel, Microsoft Project, PowerPoint and Visio. Good Knowledge in data extraction, transmission and loading. Strong analytical skills with ability to quickly understand clients’ business needs and identify available data sources and the relationships that exist within them. Experience in Production Support and the ability to provide time-bound and quality driven solutions have cultivated decision-making and analytical ability. Greater flexibility with work hours and/or extended hours on occasions to meet client. Ability to handle multiple tasks and work independently as well as in a team. Excellent communication skills, problem solving and logical methodology. Work well in the team environment, Self-motivated, quick learner, able to work well under tight deadlines and rapidly changing priorities. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems:  Windows/  2000/2003/2007 , UNIX (HP-ux) Software & Languages:  SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell scripting, C, C++, JAVA, HTML. Databases:  Oracle  8.1.7/9.2.0.2/9.2.0.5/10.2.0.1/11.0.2.4 , SQL Server, MySQL, MS Access Tools: SQL *Plus, SQL Developer, Toad, Tableau, Informatica power center SAP Business Objects, PL/SQL Developer, Mercurial, AutoSys, and Erwin. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Madison, WI Data Warehouse/ETL Developer Responsibilities: Part of development team, developed real time extract, transform and load process (ETL) which helps to keep data warehouse up-to-date with the source system. Involved in ETL code using PL/SQL in order to meet requirements for Extract, transformation, cleansing and loading of data from source to target data structures. Extracted and transformed data from external sources, including third party databases, government classifications, and other subsystems within HPE using PL/SQL, UNIX shell scripts(Bash and/ or Korn), and Autosys scheduling. Involved in the continuous enhancements and fixing of production problems. Generated server-side PL/SQL scripts for data manipulation and validation and materialized views for remote instances. Developed PL/SQL triggers and master tables for automatic creation of primary keys. Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages for moving the data from staging area to data mart. Assisted in designing the technical solution based on business requirements, including the structure of data warehouse fact and dimension tables, as well as the management of allocated dollars, custom-defined hierarchies and ledger-based transactional data using historical facts, slowly changing dimensions, and durable keys. Provided meaningful data structures on schedule while meeting specified requirements. Conducted unit testing on data model changes, ETL, and data warehouse loads to ensure accurate results within the context of defined requirements. Review unit testing conducted by other developers and provide feedback on methodology and identify gaps in assumptions that undermine the integrity of results. Reviewed long-running queries to identify strategies for enhancing performance, reducing run times, and properly threading large loads or transformations to meet contractual obligations. Promoted code to production based on user acceptance from documented testing and guided walkthrough Using MERCURIAL. Involved in creating dashboards by extracting data from different sources. Created dashboard using parameters, sets, groups and calculations using Tableau. I have used the SAP BusinessObjects client tools such as the Universe Design Tool to create the universe and Web Intelligence to create or run reports that uses a universe as its data source. Performed the root cause analysis (RCA) for various environments. Worked with a team of business analysts to define and clarify business requirements, with an eye toward providing the most appropriate technical solution to meet the business need. Good understanding of Data mining concepts, ETL Processes and Data modeling concepts such as Design of the Dataflow, ER Diagrams, UML, Use Cases, Normalization and De-normalization of Tables. Researching different SQL loader utilities to facilitate Extraction, Transformation and Loading Comma separated files in Oracle Database. Partly also Involved in DBA activities such as setting up of Offshore Database configuration and Performance Tuning of entire implementation. Strong knowledge of Extraction Transformation and Loading (ETL) processes using UNIX shell scripting (Bash and/or Korn), SQL, PL/SQL and SQL Loader. Partitioned the fact tables and materialized views to enhance the performance. Created the Object Relational Database Tables with all the necessary Constraints and Referential Integrity using ERWIN Data modeler. Designed and Developed Data Marts from the DWH for application users to configure their application. Strategized and implemented Oracle Release deployment for the application. Deployment maintenance optimally managed for smooth execution of Oracle scripts. Worked on agile scrum environment, attended daily stand up meetings provided application testing status to the team and at the same time take updates from team members and apply on testing. Worked with office 365 for communication and sharing the documents to the team members. Environment: Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, SQL*PLUS, TOAD, UNIX sun Solaris (5.8/5.9), ERWIN, ETLSQL, PL/SQL, WinSCP, Office 365, Total Commander, Autosys, Putty Mercurial, DATA WAREHOUSING, and Windows 7 Confidential - McMinnville, OR Oracle Software Specialist Responsibilities: Part of Design team for gathering client requirements, studied their legacy system and proposed strategies in order to migrate their data and make it compatible to the STG billing system which they need to migrate to. Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages for moving the data from staging area to data mart. Responsible for ETL using OWB. Analyzed the Business requirement for OWB and Mapped the Architecture. Developed advanced PL/SQL packages, procedures, triggers, functions, indexes and collections to implement business logic using SQL Navigator. Core Oracle Development done to implement Oracle Views, Oracle Procedures, Functions and Packages by writing Complex PL/SQL code to meet Business Functionality. Developed PL/SQL procedures to fetch the data from different source systems like CLARIFY and PEOPLESOFT data bases into Data warehouse. Extensively used ODI (Oracle Data Integrator) ELT tool to create Data ware Housing OLAP model. Worked extensively on developing ETL process for employee migration from PeopleSoft to Workday for timesheet related data. Generated server-side PL/SQL scripts for data manipulation and validation and materialized views for remote instances. Strategizing Refreshing of Materialized views used in the project. Researching Gap analysis and finalizing Changes required in our system to accommodate the business scenarios. Created PL/SQL scripts to extract the data from the operational database into simple flat text files using UTL FILE package. Good understanding of Data mining concepts, ETL Processes and Data modeling concepts such as Design of the Dataflow, ER Diagrams, UML, Use Cases, Normalization and De-normalization of Tables. Researching different SQL loader utilities to facilitate Extraction, Transformation and Loading Comma separated files in Oracle Database. Plan, design and code for the development and maintenance of Data Replication product following software life cycle model. Used ODI commands like OdiFileMove, odiFileAppend, odiFilecopy etc. Implemented Threading of Oracle Jobs to enhance performance gains. Threading involves designing logic for simultaneous execution of Jobs dividing the number of records executions per Oracle job. Partly also Involved in DBA activities such as setting up of Offshore Database configuration and Performance Tuning of entire implementation. Strong knowledge of Extraction Transformation and Loading (ETL) processes using UNIX shell scripting (Bash and/ or Korn), SQL, PL/SQL and SQL Loader. Strategized and implemented Oracle Release deployment for the application. Deployment maintenance optimally managed for smooth execution of Oracle scripts. Created technical tasks using JIRA and used it for BUG tracking and issue tracking. Used Confluence to collaborate, share knowledge and to assign tasks to specific users, and manage several calendars at once Oracle Copy Command Implemented as part of Scripts to Transfer Data from one database to another. Environment: Oracle 11g, SQL*PLUS, TOAD, SQL Server 2000/2005, UNIX sun Solaris (5.8/5.9), ERWIN, ETL, Sal server Management Studio, Office 365, and Windows XP/2000 and windows 7 Confidential, San Ramon, CA Oracle Developer Responsibilities: Gathered Business Requirements from the client and translated the business detail into technical design and specification Coordinated with the front-end design team to provide them with the necessary stored procedures and packages and the necessary insight into the data. Involved in logical and physical modeling of application Responsible for writing PL/SQL Packages, Functions, Procedures, Collections and cursors. Created the Object Relational Database Tables with all the necessary Constraints and Referential Integrity using ERWIN Data modeler Designed and Developed Data Marts from the DWH for application users to configure their application. Developed real time extract, transform and load process (ETL) which helps to keep data warehouse up-to-date with the source system. Developed back end interfaces using PL/SQL Packages, Stored Procedures, Collections and Triggers. Used Control Structures like IF, CASE, FOR, and WHILE Loops for standard PL/SQL programming. Analyzed the business requirements and framing the Business Logic for the ETL Process and maintained the ETL process using Informatica Power Center and worked on Power Center client tools like Source Analyzer, Target designer, Mapping Designer. Involved in SQL and PL/SQL performance tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF and DBMS PROFILER. Handled errors using PL/SQL Exception Handling for the ease of debugging and displaying error messages. Developed SQL scripts for Referential Integrity check, which checks validity of incoming data with master tables in database. Involved in creating Index’s, passing hints, analyzing the table. Created new database objects like tables, Indexes, Views using SQL in Development and Production environment for Oracle 11g and was involved with the Performance tuning, Optimization of queries and standardization of the code. Working on the transformations such as Source Qualifier, Expression, Lookups, Filter, Router, Sorter, Joiner, Sequence Generators, Aggregators, Union, and Rank Wrote detailed design specs for ETL and converted the functional specs written by Data Modellers into the detailed design spec for ETL. Created indexes for faster access of data. Participated in Debugging Critical Production issues by working as a Team. Data loaded from legacy systems (ETL Operations) using PL/SQL and SQL*Loader. Environment: Oracle 11g, SQL*PLUS, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Loader, XML, TOAD, Forms 9i, Reports 6i, Toad, UNIX sun Solaris (5.8/5.9), ERWIN, ETL, Office 365 and Oracle Enterprise Manager (OEM) Confidential Oracle Developer Responsibilities: Part of Design team which studied their legacy system and proposed strategies in order to migrate their data and make it compatible to the STG billing system which they need to migrate to. Responsibility of finalizing strategy for Data migration. Data migration was decided through Java Utility to read through Microsoft XL file and Load into Oracle database and transform the data through PL/SQL Oracle views. Used PL/SQL to Extract Transform and Load (ETL) the data into Data Warehouse and Developed PL/SQL scripts in accordance with the necessary Business rules and procedures. Before ETL, Involved in Data Analysis, Data Design, Data Integration and Data Mapping. After ETL, Involved in Data Validation, Data Performance in loading target table and for reporting purpose. Developed and modified triggers, packages, functions and stored procedures for data conversions and PL/SQL procedures to create database objects dynamically based on user inputs. Wrote SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus programs required to retrieve data using cursors and exception handling. Developed control files for SQL* Loader and PL/SQL scripts for Data Extraction/Transformation/Loading (ETL) and loading data into interface Tables (Staging area) from different source systems and validating the data. Oracle Table Designing finalized for the Project. Coding of Oracle Packages to implement business functionality. Applied Oracle Table Indexing on Oracle tables for optimizing query performance. Researching Gap analysis and finalizing Changes required in our system to accommodate the business scenarios. Involved in the Preparation of the functional and technical documents, ETL Specifications, data mapping and migration documents. Strong skills in Data Analysis, Data Requirement Analysis and Data Mapping for ETL processes. Partly Involved in DBA activities such as setting up of Offshore Database configuration and Performance Tuning of entire implementation. Strategized Oracle Release deployment for the application. Deployment maintenance optimally managed for smooth execution of Oracle scripts. Environment: ORACLE 10/11G, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*LOADER, ETL, UNIX shell scripting (Bash and/ or Korn), ERWIN, java. 