PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY: Over 5 years of experience in the role of a Microsoft Business Intelligence Developer in the following: Business Intelligence experience in Development, Client Analysis, Database Design, Reporting, and Presentation using SQL Server 2012/2014, SSIS, SSAS and SSRS. Proficient to build end to end data integration and workflow solutions from input source extraction, apply various transformations and data load. Developed Custom Reports and different types of Reports, drilldown, drill - through, sub-report, Ad-hoc Reports, and distributed Reports in multiple formats using SSRS in Business intelligence development studio (BIDS). SSIS: Developed and Maintained Microsoft SSIS packages including database design, ETL and analysis integrations to meet business requirements. Used SSIS to create ETL packages to validate, extract, transform and load data to data warehouse databases. Created packages in SSIS with error handling as well as created complex SSIS packages using proper control flow and data flow elements. SSRS: Created SSRS report projects in BI Visual studio and created, modified, and managed various report models with multiple objects, source fields and expressions. Defined the report layout and identified datasets for the report generation. Developed reports using complex T-SQL queries, user defined functions, stored procedures, and views. Developed various types of intricate reports like drill down, drill through, gauges, pie chart, bar chart, sub-reports. SSAS: Designed and developed data warehouse, data marts using multi-dimensional models - star schema. Implemented different slowly changing dimension methodologies to maintain and update historical data corresponding to dimension tables in the data warehouse. Followed Agile Methodology to keep track of projects and maintained schedule by being an active participant of daily scrums and bi-weekly sprint. SSMS: Design, implement and maintain database schema, entity relationship diagrams, data modeling, tables, stored procedures, constraints, indexes, functions, views, defaults, and complex SQL statements. Establishing referential integrity, data consistency, and indexing, and data cleanup procedures to maintain high quality data that can be used for reporting. Tested applications for performance, data integrity and validation issues. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Database Tools: SQL Server Management Studio(SSMS), SQL Profiler, Query Analyzer, DTS Designer, Index Tuning Wizard GUI Tools: SQL Server Business Intelligence Development Studio, ER Studio, Visual Studio 2010/2012 Languages: T-SQL OLAP Tools: SSAS, SSRS Tools: and Packages: SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Business Intelligence DevelopmentStudio (BIDS), SSIS, ETL ETL Tools: SSIS, DTS, Import/Export Wizard PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential  SQL Server/SSIS/SSRS/BI Developer Responsibilities: Interacted, retrieved, and analyzed business requirements. Used SSIS to create ETL packages to validate, extract, transform and load data to data warehouse databases from multiple sources of data. Developed several detailed and summary reports, including bar graphs and pie charts, trend analysis reports and sub-reports according to business requirements in other to help with management and control of all inventory. Added parameterized report functionality for the users with drill-down and drill-through features. Developed complex stored procedures utilizing transactions, merge statements and dynamic SQL. Structured conditional formatting logic to control components behavior and appearance. Produced parameter driven, matrix, sub-reports, and integrated report hyperlink functionality to access external applications. Landing of packages from different sources to Development Environment. Developed and designed Star and Snowflake data models. Created unique data driven email subscriptions within report manager. Created clustered and non-clustered indexes on tables for new database for faster retrieval of data for the Reports. Confidential, Irving, Texas BI Developer (SQL/SSIS/SSRS/SSAS) Responsibilities: Work closely with all levels of business, with varying levels of technical knowledge, to gather accurate and actionable business and technical requirements. Participated in Sprint planning sessions and created Test Strategies in Agile environment. Created business detail Summary Reports using charts, graphs, maps and trend analysis. Wrote complex SQL queries and Stored Procedures to extract data from multiple sources and performed ETL Processes to Load the data into Data Warehouse and developed Business Intelligence SSRS reports. Created packages in SSIS with error handling as well as created complex SSIS packages using various transformation and tasks like Sequence Containers, Script, For Loop and For Each Loop Container, Execute SQL, Execute Package, Send Mail, File System, Row Count, Sort, Union All, flat files source and destination, OLEDB source and destination, excel source and destination etc. Created Documentation, ER Diagrams using MS Visio and Erwin for ER modeling. Designed BI analytical subscriptions for weekly, monthly, quarterly and yearly deployment. Designed logical models like Star and Snowflake-Schema to load Data warehouse for OLAP. Coordinated with the appropriate technical groups and Release Management. Perform the system testing and assist Application Developers and Technical support staff in identifying and resolving defects. Environment: MS SQL Server, MS BI Reporting, Integration, and Analysis Services (SSRS, SSIS and SSAS) 