SUMMARY: 7+ years of Software Application Development, testing and implementation experience with Web based and N - tier Architecture involving all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Experience in using CSS, Java Script, VB Script, Themes& Skins, User controls and Custom Controls in ASP.Net. Proficiency in different web technologies like HTML, XML, Web Services, JavaScript and SOAP. Extensive working experience indatabase design and development, for creating complex database queries, writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures and Functions using SQL Server 2008/2012. Expertise in developing Web-based and Windows-based applications using C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, AJAX, JavaScript, XML, CSS, SQL-Server 2008/2005/2000 and Visual Studio 2013/2012/2010/2008. Experience in C#. NET and ADO.NET to define and implement secure middle-tier components consumed by web applications and windows applications utilizing SQL Server and stored procedures to perform logical business transactions. Worked extensively with different ADO.NET objects to interact with database and good experience in usingADO.Netobjects such asSQL Connection Object, SQL Command Object, Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter. Experience in implementing severalDesign Patternsto standardize the application architecture. Hands on experience in developing applications to access data and data services in ADO.NET. Expertise with application development using Object Oriented Analysis & Design techniques (OOAD). Working knowledge of Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), which provides developers with a unified programming model for building rich windows smart client user experiences that in corporate UI, media and Documents. Experience using Source Code Control Systems likeMS Visual Source Safeand Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS). Experience in configuration and setup of IIS Application Servers. Involvement in all stages of System development lifecycle (SDLC) including requirements, logical and physical architecture modeling, design, development, implementation, and support. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Technologies: ASP.NET 2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, Web Services, WCF, MVC 4.0, .NET MVC. Languages: C#.NET, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Core Java, T-SQL Database Access Methods: ADO.Net, ODBC Operating System: Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7.0/8.0/8.1, MS DOS, UNIX. Web Technologies: ASP.NET, Java Script, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery Databases: MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2014, Oracle 9i/10g/11g Web servers: Internet Information Server (IIS) 8.0/7.0/6.0/5.1 Version Control Tools: Win CVS, Visual Source Safe, Team Foundation Server Testing Tools: Visual Studio Integrated Unit Testing Framework, NUnit 2.4 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, Houston, TX Sr .Net Developer Responsibilities: My current responsibilities include performing analysis into the different stages of the system development life cycle in order to support development and testing efforts, identify positive and negative trends, and formulate recommendations for process improvements and developments standards. Involved in a day-day Scrum Software development methodology and Test Driven Development TDD Extensively worked in Entity Data Model for implementing Business logic and Data Layer using Entity Framework 4.0 Highly Involved in Creating Structure and UML Diagrams (Structure Diagrams, Logical Diagrams, and Use Case Diagrams) in assistance with Business Analyst. Developed Application layer using ASP. Net, Server controls, HTML Controls and Validation controls. Developed Application using .NET Framework 4.5, Object Oriented Principles (OOP), and n-Tier Architecture. Effectively created easy to use, reusable controls and Master Pages and integrated them into ASP.NET web pages with MVC 4.0. Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various web pages using, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery. Effectively used JQuery a concise JavaScript Library for traversing HTML document, event handling and AJAX interactions. Created Inbound and outbound WCF services / Web Services have been created to integrate with Email client and support applications using C#.Net Wrote Data Access Layer Methods, T-SQL Queries, Store Procedures, and SQL User Defined functions for fetching Transaction details, Customer Details, and Product Configuration data. Heavily used LINQ to SQL to retrieve data about Customers & Transactions. Developed DAL using LINQ Data context object with ADO.NET Entity Framework for LINQ, invoked DB tables and stored procedures and Implemented LINQ Lambda Expressions to query in memory expressions. Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server for the purpose of version Control and source code maintenance needs. Involved in Unit testing, Modular testing, Integration testing and successful integration of modules and multiple layers in the system. Used Microsoft Test Manager in Visual Studio for running Action recorded Test Cases and Regression Tests. Environment: C#.Net, Object Oriented Methodologies, Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server 2008, ADO.NET, .NET Framework 4.5, HTML, CSS, JQUERY, Bootstrap, Web Service, WCF, XAML, LINQ, IIS 6.0, MS VISIO(UML), N-UNIT, n-tier architecture, Agile Methodology, Team Foundation Server( TFS ), MVC 4.0. Confidential, Glenwood, IL .NET Developer Responsibilities: Developed and support above applications in AJAX, C#, JQuery and ASP.net. Developed web applications Oracle and SQL Server as Data servers. Developed the web application and all of its components using N-Tier architecture. Separated logic for Presentation, Business and Data access tiers to accomplish n-tier. Created complicated web interfaces to facilitate creation of reports. Created a RESTFUL WCF Service to communicate from .NET front end application to .net service deployed in IIS. Developed various Asp.net modules using MVC 4.0, C#. Proficient in Configuration Management, setting up company version policies, build schedules using Team Foundation Server (TFS) 2012/2010 and Visual Source Safe (VSS). Implemented Data access layer using Entity Framework Database First Technology. Implemented Client Side scripting using JQuery. Created and consumed WCF Services for Business Logic. Wrote C# classes to generate excel and PDF reports. Heavily used Ajax and Ajax controls in several projects. Used Generics in C# to accomplish complicated business logic. Used both Client and Server side session management as a part of the project. Used Caching to display huge data on the web user interface. Created classes and core modules in C# for implementing business layer. Created Database Schema and Objects in SQL Server 2008 R2. Created SSIS packages for data transformation for data staging. Used CSS/Themes and Master pages to maintain styling throughout the application. Environment: C#, ASP.NET, CSS, SQL Server 2012/2014, Oracle 10g, IIS 7.0, JQuery, Kendo UI, ADO.NET, Net Framework, Visual studio 2010/2012, JavaScript,Restful services,TFS, LINQ, MVC, Entity Framework. Confidential, California .NET Developer Responsibilities: Designed and developed Web Forms using ASP.NET Controls, CSS and HTML to facilitate the registered users. Developed classes in Business Layer and in Data Access Layer in C# Used Custom Validations and User Validation to give access to registered users. Used user controls and Custom User Controls to provide standard interactive User Interface. Created views to facilitate easy interface implementation and triggers on them to facilitate consistent data entry into the database. Created database objects using SQL Server including complex Stored Procedures, DTS packages, triggers, tables, and views and other SQL joins and statements for applications UI Designing, Development and Testing of Web Forms using ASP.NET, C#, XML, ADO.NET and .NET Framework. Used AJAX toolkit controls. Responsible for the creation of the applications by using C#.net and enhancement of the projects for .net applications. Implemented interfaces in C# which encapsulate business logic and call them from Web Forms Developed Web Services for the System using .NET (SOAP/XML) Deployment of Web services for online transactions using C# and exposed them through SOAP and HTTP Involved in designing and developing ASP.NET Web Parts which brings uniform look to the site. Effectively handled ASP.NETclient side state management features such as view state, control state, hidden fields, cookies and query strings. Transformed XML files into specified business format (PDF, MS-Word) using XSLT. Implemented Exception Handling, Logging and Validation of incoming requests. Documented the modules developed front-end screens. DevelopedT-SQL Stored Procedures for Generating Reports. Used JavaScript validations with ASP.NET controls. Used Visual Source Safe (VSS) for version and source code control. Environment: .Net Framework 3.5, ASP.NET, C#, XML, Web Services, JavaScript, CSS, ADO.NET, IIS 7.0, SOAP, HTML, MS Excel, Document Object Model, Visual Source Safe(VSS), SQL Server 2008 and Visual Studio 2008. Confidential  Jr.Net Developer Responsibilities: Created various Web forms for user login, account summary, loan applications and history pages using ASP.Net. Worked extensively with asp.net repeaters, list boxes and HTML tables as required making up the User Interface. Implemented form based authentication and maintained Session State information throughout the webtransaction. Implemented Client and Server side validations using JavaScript and ASP.net validation controls. Configured the web.config file for Session Management and trace. Developed a search control which is used to filter transactions for a given transaction name and date range. Provided database connectivity using ADO.Net and created stored procedures using MS SQL Server 2005. Used Data Adapters, Datasets and Command & Connection Objects of ADO.NET to manipulate Data in the SQL Server Database. Prepared documentation for any Production moves or fixes and adhered to Change Control and management procedures. Extensively used ASP.NetRepeaters and Data lists to display account summary, loan history and other information on the web pages. Performed functional testing on various developed modules. Used VSS for the source code & document version control. Environment: Visual Studio 2005, ASP.Net 2.0, C#, ADO.Net, Web forms, SQL Server 2005, HTML, CSS, UML and Visual Source Safe. 