SUMMARY Over 6+ years of IT Experience in Database Design, Development and business intelligence of Microsoft SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2008 R2 in Development, Staging and Production Environments on various business domains like Financial, Insurance, and Health Care. Experience in MS SQL Server with SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and T - SQL. Exposed to all phases of software development life cycle SDLC including in-depth knowledge of Agile methodology, Enterprise Reporting Life Cycle, SQL Server Migrations, Change control rules, problem management and escalation procedures. Experience in High-Level Design of ETL - DTS Packages &SSIS Packages - for integrating data using OLE DB connection from heterogeneous sources (Excel, CSV, flat file, Text Format Data) by using multiple transformations provided by SSIS such as Data Conversion, Conditional Split, Bulk Insert, merge and union all. Created & formatted Crosstab, Conditional, Drill down, Top N, Summary, Form, OLAP, Sub reports, ad hoc reports, parameterized reports, interactive reports & custom reports. Excellent T-SQL Developer skills working with Stored Procedures, Views, User Functions, Triggers, SQL Agent jobs. Experience in Data Modeling, Database Design, SQL Scripting, Development and Implementation of Client-Server & Business Intelligence (SSIS, SSAS, SSRS) applications. Delivered BI reporting solutions in Power BI, Reporting Services (SSRS), Tableau and MicroStrategy. Experience with SQL Performance tuning and transactions analysis, thorough understanding of indexes and statistics. Experienced in managing and automating Control flow, Data flow, Events and Logging programmatically using Microsoft .NET framework for SSIS packages. Experience in providing Logging, Error handling by using Event Handler, and Custom Logging for SSIS Packages. Experienced in SQL Server Analysis Services OLAP Cubes and Data Mining. Expert in designing complex reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Excel Pivot table based on OLAP cubes which make use of multiple value selection in parameters pick list, cascading prompts, matrix dynamics reports and other features of reporting service. Extensive knowledge of designing, developing and deploying various kinds of reports using SSRS using relational and multidimensional data. Expertise in generating reports using SQL Server Reporting Services, Crystal Reports and MS Excel spreadsheets. Expert in generating Drill down reports, Parameterized reports, Linked reports, Ad-Hoc reports, Sub reports and filters, and charts in SSRS 2016/2014/2012/2008. Knowledge on Active Directory Administration and Good understanding of Change Control process. Experience in providing SSRS server level, Item level Security & Accessibility to various reports in multi-user environment. Experience in developing reports using Microsoft SharePoint Server Enterprise Edition. Good SQL Server Administration skills including, Backups, Disaster Recovery Model, database maintenance, user authorizations, Database creation, Tables, indexes. Experience on TFS (Team Foundation Server), Visual Source Safe. Configured database mail to send messages when jobs failed in SQL Server 2016/2014/2012. TECHNICAL SKILLS BusinessIntelligenceTools: SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) Data Visualization Tools: Power BI, Tableau Desktop, Tableau Server, Tableau Online Database Management Systems: Oracle SQL Developer, Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R 2/2012/2014/2017, MS SQL Server Management Studio 2008/2014/2017, Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/2017, MySQL Programming: T-SQL, PL-SQL, C, C#, pw.NET, PowerShell Scripts Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML, Visual Studio Operating Systems: Windows, Unix, Linux, Mac OS Project Management Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Six Sigma, PMBOK, Waterfall Software Skills: Microsoft Office Suite, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, SharePoint, JIRA, Confluence PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Madison, WI SQL Server BI (SSRS /SSIS) Developer Responsibilities: Designed a complex SSIS package for importing data from SQL Server 2016. Use ETL to implement the slowly changing dimension Transformation, to maintain Historical Data in Data warehouse. Created packages in SSIS with error handling and event handling. Worked with different methods of logging in SSIS like flat file, SQL Server table, and event viewer. Implemented data views and control tools for guarantee data transformation using SSIS. Used various transformations like Multicast, Conditional split, OLEDB Command, Script Component, and Lookup while loading the data into Destination. Experience inmigrating data from on-premise SQL Databases into Cloud Azure. Wrote complex Merge procedures to handle Type-2 Slowly Changing Dimension (Historical) data. Involved to write complex T-SQL queries and Stored Procedures for generating reports. Defined parameters for parameterized Reports using SSRS. Designed and developed various Service Management Reports, utilizing Dynamic and Cascading Prompts, sub-reports, charts, parameterized reports, conditional and dynamic reports using SSRS 2012. Successfully worked with Report Server and configured into SQL Server 2016. Extensively worked with OLAP cubes to generate drill through reports in SSRS. Designed DAX queries in accessing cubes and hands-on experience in query structuring, performance optimization. Involved in the analysis, design, development, testing, deployment and user training of analytical and transactional reporting systems. Extensively worked on TFS (Team Foundation Server) for version control. Used stored procedures, wrote new stored procedures and triggers, modified existing ones, and tuned them such that they perform well. Experience in Power BI Desktop and Power BI Pro. Experience creating and developing Power BI Dashboards. Created calculated columns, complex Measures in Power BI Desktop using DAX to show data analysis techniques. Scheduled Automatic refresh and scheduling refresh in Power BI service. Used JIRA as an issue tracking tool. Tuned SQL queries using execution plans for better performance. Scheduled the monthly/weekly/daily reports to run automatically. Environment: MS SQL Server Management Studio 2016/2012, MS Visual Studio 2017/2015, SQL Server Integration Service, SQL Server Reporting Services, T-SQL, Jira 7.6.x, Power BI 2015. Confidential, Brentwood, TN SQL Server Developer/SSRS Developer Responsibilities: Worked with Business Analysts and Users to understand the requirements. Extensively worked on Data Flow tasks like for each Loop Container, Execute process task, Transfer SQL Server Objects task, Transfer Jobs task, Transfer Logins task. Worked with SSIS packages involved FTP tasks, Fuzzy Grouping, Merge and Merge joining, Pivot and Unpivot Control Flow Transformations. Used SQL Server Package Configuration technique to make Dynamic configurations. Used Text Files/ SQL Server Table Logging for all SSIS packages. Used Excel Power Pivot and Power view to build Scorecards and Dashboards. Designed the functional and technical documents, report templates and reporting standards for the developers to work on the report development. Generated reports from the cubes by connecting to the Analysis server from SSRS. Created On-demand (Pull) and Event-Based delivery (Push) of reports per the requirement. Used Microsoft Visual Studio to write .NET code. Used .NET code in script task to perform some business requirements when dealing with images. Created Tableau worksheet which involves Schema Import, Implementing the business logic by customization. Created Data Connections, Published on Tableau Server for usage with Operational or Monitoring Dashboards Built complex formulas in Tableau for various business calculations. Deployed and configured the reports in the Report Server. Developed Power BI reports using query logic based on business rules, and visuals selected by United stakeholders. Embedded Power BI reports on the Salesforce portal page and also managed access of reports and data for individual users using Roles. Used Excel Power Pivot and Power view to build Scorecards and Dashboards. Extracted Data from various Heterogeneous Databases such as Oracle and Access database, DB2, flat files to SQL Server 2016/2014 using SSIS. Used SSIS to create ETL packages to validate, extract, transform and load data into the data warehouse and data marts. Created ad hoc reports to users in Tableau by connecting various data sources. Handled Tableau admin activities granting access, managing extracts and Installations. Implemented Event Handlers and Error Handling in SSIS packages and notified process results to various user communities. Experience in creating Tableau. Worked with various SSIS packages which involve Transactions, restart ability and roll back techniques. Configured SQL mail agent for sending automatic emails when SSIS packages fail or succeeds. Created Databases, Tables, Cluster/Non-Cluster Index, Unique/Check Constraints, Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers. Created User Defined Functions to encapsulate frequently and commonly used business logic making the system more modular, secure and extensible. Optimizing Stored Procedures and long-running SQL queries using indexing strategies and query optimization techniques. Schedule the packages to keep extracting the data from OLTP at specific time intervals. Responsible for rebuilding the indexes and tables as part of performance tuning. Built cubes for a production application, Partitioned Cubes to decrease the processing time and increase the performance of the queries running on the front end application. Used SQL Server Agent for scheduling jobs and alerts. Configuration and Deployment of all reports across various SDLC environments. Deployed the packages to production using XML package configuration. Environment: MS SQL Server Management Studio 2016/2014, MS Visual Studio 2015, MS Excel 2016(Power Pivot), Tableau 10, DB2(11.1/10.5), Oracle 12c (12.1), .NET, XML Confidential, Lisle, IL SQL Server SSRS/SSIS Developer Responsibilities: Created an SSIS Package (works for transactional and canonical data that works as a template for every interface). Created Automated Job steps to process daily and weekly Data. Created various complex SSIS packages and deployed to Development, QA and Production environments. Extensively used various Red gate tools. Used SQL Compare for comparing and deploying SQL objects. Used SQL Data Compare for comparing and deploying data. Used SQL Packager for comparing and deploying SQL objects with or without data. Source control that keeps the team in sync with easy access to the latest database version. Worked closely withthe Businessteam during the development of the Interfaces. Created Technical specification documents for each SSIS package developed. Administered and monitored SSIS packages. Extensively used various SSIS objects like Control Flow components, Data flow components, Connection Managers, Shared Data sources. Efficiently used Configuration files for changing the connection managers while deploying packages to different servers. Created DTEXEC and DTEXECUI batch files to run various interfaces. Created several Linked Servers to load data into different locations. Used Dynamic SQL for different variables while developing SSIS packages. Environment: MS SQL Server Management Studio 2014/2013, MS Visual Studio2013/2012, T-SQL, SQL Server Integration Service, SQL Server Reporting Services, Redgate Tools, TFS 2013, SharePoint 2013 Confidential SQL Server SSIS/SSRS Developer Responsibilities: Created a lot of complex stored procedures, triggers, functions, indexes, views with T-SQL statements in SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS). Involved in designing and managing schema objects such as Tables, Views, Indexes, Stored Procedures, Triggers and maintained referential integrity using SQL Server Management Studio. Processed ETL to transfer data from remote data centers to local data centers using SSIS. Cleansing, messaging of the data is done on the local database. Designed an ETL strategy to transfer data from source to landing, staging, and destination in the data warehouse using SSIS and DTS (Data Transformation Service). Developed SSIS packages to export data from Excel/Access to SQL Server, automated all the SSIS packages and monitored errors using SQL Server Agent Job. Used reporting service created several reports based on cube and local data warehouse. Prepared reports using SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Service) to declare discrepancies between user expectations and service efforts involved in scheduling the subscription reports via the subscription report wizard. Involved in generating and deploying various reports using global variables, expressions, and functions using SSRS. Interacted with subject matter experts in understanding the business logic, implemented complex business requirements in backend using efficient stored procedures and flexible function. Environment: MS SQL Server Management Studio 2008 R2/2012, SQL Server Integration Service, SQL Server Reporting Services, MS Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Import/Export Wizard, MS Office 2010. 