SUMMARY 4 years of IT experience in design, development, testing, maintenance, and documentation of Enterprise applications in Python Good knowledge in IDE - PyCharm, NetBeans, Eclipse, Sublime Text, Spyder Good knowledge in Python coding and JSON Experienced in using Python, Django, Pandas and Flask framework Mastering in implementing MVC architecture using Django for web-based applications in OOP concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH,Flask/Django Experience with virtualization tools, used for supporting and hosting OIM Components, such as Oracle Virtual Box, VMware Workstation, Oracle VM Server and VMware vSphere Good knowledge of development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT). Experience with Agile and SDLC methodologies Experience with cloud platforms like AWS S3 with Amazon EC2 Strong knowledge with REST API development Proficient in analytical problem-solving skills Good team player with excellent work history and willingness to go the extra mile. A motivated self-starter and well-communicated team member. Good written and communication skills. Poses capability to interact very closely with a wide range of audiences such as Engineers, Scientists, Health professionals, Scientists, Professors, Clients, and Vendors. Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: C, C++, Python, PHP, SQL Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OS, VMware Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS, XML, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, JSON Framework: Django, Flask, Jython, Pyramid, Bottle, Pandas, CherryPy Deployment Tools: AWS, Heroku, Jenkins, Azure Version Controls: Virtual Box, VMware Workstation Database: SQL, MS Access, SQL Server, MYSQL, PostgresSQL, MongoDB PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, NC Python Developer Responsibilities: Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solutions. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files. Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications. Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users. Used Django API's to access the database. Involved in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization. Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML. Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code. Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data. Developed efficient Angular.js for client web-based application. Working in team of Architects andDevelopersto build and deployPythonFlask. Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application. Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX. Involved in working with Python open stock API's. Design, develop, and deploy engaging web applications using Python. Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and PyMongo. Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites. Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs and created User Model for application. Developed a complete front-end application with Bootstrap. Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services Environment: - Python 3.4, Django 1.8, Linux, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, MySQL, SQL, PLSQL, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, JSON, Restful API, MVC architecture, RESTAPI gateway, GitHub Confidential, Pleasanton, CA PYTHON DEVELOPER Responsibilities: Generated Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login and signup of online users. Designed email marketing campaigns and created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework. Learned technical skills that are required for the system like CherryPy, Django, Flask, Pandas, JIRA, and Heroku etc. Developed Python scripts to read from Excel files, generate XML configuration files and for generating IP access frequency lists in different data logs. Learned how to create specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book. Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization. Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity. Write a wrapper program in Python to automate the entire process like running different executables of FORTAN and call the Java swing program. Worked for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running it the design team for project structure. Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful Web Service from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS. Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process from scratch by extending Django user model. Collaborated with a team of instructors and programmers to develop the curriculum and guidelines for workshops to teach the logic of programming. Designed and Implemented a Random Unique Test Selector Package on processing large volume of data using Python and Django ORM. Extensive knowledge in using UNIX shell scripts for automation of ETL processes & for file handling. Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS Expertise in developing web-based LAMD stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis. Upgraded Python 2.5 to Python 2.7 on a RHEL server. This upgrade was necessary because in lined models with UTF-8 characters were causing unexpected errors. Environment: Python 2.7, RabbitMQ, FORTAN, XML, WSDL, CherryPy, Flask, Django, Pandas, MySQL, CSS, HTML, Jenkins. Confidential Junior Developer Responsibilities: For web applications development projects, used PHP as the development language. Used HTML and CSS for UI design, JavaScript for application functionality, and MySQL for supporting database server. Designed, developed, and implemented four n-tire/multi-tier applications - three web based, and one desktop based. Developed a billing solution, a payment tracking system, and an inventory management system. Led four application development projects, and act as a subject matter expert (SME) while administrated all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC). For desktop-based application development, used C# .Net as the development language, and Oracle as the database server. Wrote code in SQL Programming for database queries. For web applications development projects, used PHP as the development language. Used HTML and CSS for UI design, JavaScript for application functionality, and MySQL for supporting database server. Published sales and production reports monthly and offered PowerPoint presentations to several teams like marketing team, production team, and finance team. Collected sales, production, inventory data from various sources such as sales directory, production data and stored them in MS Excel spreadsheets. Analyzed medium-to-high volume production and sales data with MS Excel and published monthly reports. Environment: s/Tools used: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL, Agile methodology, SQL programming, and MS Visual Studio. 