SUMMARY Over 1.5 years of experience as Database Administrator. Skilled at performing Data Transformations and Data Analysis using Spark and ETL processes on data. Comprehensive knowledge of HDFS, MapReduce, YARN, Hive, Sqoop, HBase and Zookeeper. Detailed knowledge of virtualization services (Hyper - V) like creating, configuring, backing up, restoring and managing virtual machines. Create and update Knowledge Base documentation as required. Extensive knowledge and experience in all phases of application and Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC). Highly skilled in performing all Server Admin activities like installing Windows Server 2012, configuring Hyper V, DHCP, AD, remote desktop services, print on server, file sharing over network and monitoring performance Multidimensional working expertise in Networking including Subnetting IP networks, static routing, dynamic routing, VLANs, ACL and using them to build a small network. Hands-on technology professional accustomed to handling complex and challenging projects, highly adaptive to any work environment, performance-oriented and strongly willing to imbibe new skills. Acute problem-solving skills coupled with exceptional analytical and communication skills in driving results through teambuilding. TECHNICAL SKILLS Cloud Platforms:  AWS, Microsoft Azure Big Data Technologies:  Hadoop 2.0, MapReduce 2.0, YARN, Hive, Sqoop, Spark and Zookeeper Programming Languages:  C, C++, Java, Python Web Technologies:  HTML, CSS, JavaScript Databases:  MySQL, MongoDB Operating systems and Servers:  Windows, Linux, Web Logic Server, Apache Tomcat Tools: Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio, GIT, Tableau Others:  Microsoft Office, PowerPoint, Excel, Outlook PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Database Administrator Responsibilities: Day-to-day administration of live SQL Servers Installing SQL Server with minimum access privileges service account to improve security. Designing and implementation of comprehensive Backup plan and disaster recovery strategies. Configured Snapshot Replication, Transaction replications and involved in debugging replication issues. Installed Active/passive Microsoft SQL Clustering using 2 nodes in production environment. Migration of SQL server from 2008 to 2008 R2 and SQL server 2012. Identified, tested, and resolved database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure optimal performance of the server. Created Database Maintenance Plans for the Performance of SQL Server, which covers Database Integrity. Involved in fine Tuning Performance and Query optimization of the Database as required by the application. Environment: Java, Servlets, HTML5, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, MySQL, Web Logic Server. 