SUMMARY 5 years of expertise in the Development of client server and multi - tiered applications using SQL on different platforms like Windows XP/7/10, UNIX. Experience in Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC), Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and Defect Management Life Cycle. Strong experience in Microsoft Business Intelligence technologies like SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Experience in writing complex SQL queries involving multiple table inner and outer joins. Experienced with DTS/SSIS (SSIS 2008R  2/2012/2014/2016 ) Packages (Developing, Deploying, Scheduling, Troubleshooting and monitoring) for Data transfers and ETL Purposes across different servers. Excellent knowledge in creating Databases, Tables, Stored Procedures, DDL/DML Triggers, Views, User defined functions, Indexes using T-SQL. Extensively used various features of SSIS Packages (Control Flow tasks, Data Flow tasks, Transformations, Migration tasks). In-depth knowledge of T-SQL DDL/DML, perform most of the SQL Server Management Studio functionality using T-SQL Scripts and Batches. Experience in Data Migrating /data integration from OLTP to OLAP systems, data validation and cleaning, data mapping using SSIS. Expert in Data Extraction, transforming and Loading (ETL) using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Data Transformation Services (DTS), Bulk Copy (BCP). Expertise in creating Break Points, Check Points, and use Error Handlers in SSIS and automating the ETL process. Hands on experience with performing various SSIS data transformations; data flow tasks like Look-ups, Merge, Merge Join, Sort, Derived Column, Union-All, Conditional Splits and Event Handlers, Sequence / For Each Loop containers, control Flow Task, Execute SQL Task, Script Task, Send Mail Task, File System Task etc. Expertise in creating various types of SSRS reports (table, chart, list, Matrix Tablix reports). Designed and developed Drill down, Drill through, parameterized reports with Drop down menu options using SSRS. Strong Ability to work independently or as part of a team to accomplish critical business objectives as well as good decision-making skill under high pressure complex scenarios. TECHNICAL SKILLS Databases: MS SQL Server  2016/2014/2012/2008/2008 r2, MS ACCESS. Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, PRO* C, C++, Java, Visual Basic, T-SQL, PL/SQL, XML, HTML 5, Shell/Bash Scripting. Database Tools: TOAD, SQL Developer, Oracle Enterprise Manager, SSMS. Oracle Tools: Oracle 12c/11g/ 10g/ 9i/ 8i, Forms Builder 6i/9i/10g/11g/12c. Data ware Housing Tools: Informatica Power Center 9/8, Visual Studio, ERWIN Operating Systems: UNIX, LINIX, AIX, SUN Solaris, Windows VISTA/XP/2000/98 Ticketing Systems: SYSAID, HP Service Manager, JIRA, Rational Team Concert Change Management: Clear Case, Visual Source Safe PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Indianapolis, IN SQL Server BI Developer Responsibilities: Prepares performance Dashboard, Jobs Failure stats, Data Volume check using SSRS, SSIS, SQL and Excel and gives PPT presentation near client for this daily. Creating and managing schema objects such as Tables, Views, Indexes and referential integrity depending on user requirements. Develop and deploy SSIS packages, configuration files, and schedules job to run the packages to generate data in CSV files. Utilized Power BI for Office 365 to amplify data visualizations with collaboration and data management. Mapped millions of records over Bing maps from Excel data model and discovered actionable insights for strategic planning utilizing Power BI (Power Map). Generated ad-hoc reports in Excel Power Pivot and sheared them using Power BI to the decision makers for strategic planning. Involved in creating calculated members, KPI’S for the SSAS cubes Designing and implementing a variety of SSRS reports such as Parameterized, Drilldown, Ad hoc and Sub-reports using Report Designer and Report Builder based on the requirements. Design and implement the ETL processes using SSIS which involves collection of data from sources like SQL Server 2008 R  2/2012/2014/2016 . Develop SSIS, SSRS / T-SQL Code and schedules jobs for Jobs Monitoring Automation. Implemented Event Handlers and Error Handling in SSIS packages and notified process results to various user communities. Created, Maintained & scheduled various reports in Power BI like Tabular Reports. Explore data in a Variety of ways and across multiple visualizations using Power BI. Created effective reports using visualizations such as Bar chart, Clustered Column Chart, Waterfall Chart, Gauge, Pie Chart, Tree map etc. in Power BI. Involved in complete SSIS life cycle in creating SSIS packages, building, deploying and executing the packages in both the environments (Development and Production). Designed and built up high performance ETL packages to migrate and manipulate data from MS Excel and SQL Server by using SSIS. Extensively used Joins and Sub-Queries to simplify complex queries involving multiple tables. Developed impactful reports using SSRS, MS Excel, Pivot tables and Tableau to solve the business requirements. Used Indexing strategies and query optimization techniques to optimize Stored Procedures and long running queries. Environment: MS SQL Server 2014, MS SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), MS SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), MS SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS), Agile, C#.NET, T SQL, SQL Profiler, XML, Team Foundation Server (TFS), MS Excel, Excess, Windows 10. Confidential, Philadelphia, PA SQL Server BI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Planning, Defining and Designing data based on business requirements and provided documentation. Writing complex queries and generating reports. Extracting queries from multiple databases like Teradata and AS 400 Optimized the performance of various SQL scripts, stored procedures and triggers by using embedded UDFs, CTEs and System stored procedures. Worked on troubleshooting and maintaining large (terabyte-size) clustered databases. Created Sub-Reports, Drilldown-Reports, Summary Reports, and Parameterized Reports in SSRS. Generated ad-hoc reports using MS Reporting services and Crystal reports. Debug and analyse VBA code/ SQL stored procedures. Develop and modify stored procedures/ VBA code. Experience with MS Office software (Excel, Access, and Word). Worked on Teradata insert, Update, modify and Dynamic SQL to transform and load Summary tables built on Core Data Warehouse. Extensively worked on Performance Tuning of Teradata SQL using explains plan and understanding Joins and Data distribution. Extensively worked on Maestro to schedule jobs as daily batch. Involved in writing Automation Testing scripts using Shell and Perl to schedule these scripts in DEV Build, test, and execute one-off procedures as needed to support business commitments. Answer business user questions. Investigate and resolve issues or problems that arise. On call for production troubles. Used SSRS to create reports, customized Reports, on-demand reports, ad-hoc reports and involved in analysing multi-dimensional reports in SSRS. Created reports using SSRS from OLTP and OLAP data sources and deployed on report server. Designing and implementing a variety of SSRS reports such as Parameterized, Drilldown, Ad hoc and Sub-reports using Report Designer and Report Builder based on the requirements. Designed SSRS reports with sub reports, dynamic sorting, defining data source and subtotals for the report and deployed SSRS reports. Ensured best practices are applied and integrity of data is maintained through security and documentation. Environment: MS SQL Server 2008, MS Reporting Services 2008, MS-Excel, MS Access, MS Visio, Teradata, AS400, Visual Studio 2008, VBA. Confidential, Quincy, MA SQL BI/Data Analyst Responsibilities: Analyzed company’s business practice and product performance to determine potential growth. Extensively used SQL queries to translate data into valuable information for decision making. Implemented advanced SQL queries using DML and DDL statements to extract large quantities of data from multiple data points on SQL Servers. Gathered data from various data points such as SQL, Access DB, and Excel and flat files. Designed and implemented data models and reports in PowerPivot, Power BI to help clients analyze data to identify market trends, competition, and customer behavior. Developed custom calculated measures using DAX in Power BI to compare the companies industry wide. Developed dashboards including various charts- bar charts, pie charts, scatter charts, bubble charts and shape maps. Involved in reporting of KPI and gauges for some parameters to keep track of close competitors in the industry. Provided in-depth market research reports for qualitative and quantitative methods. Provided SWOT analysis on financial data using Power BI charts. Analyzed data from SSAS by using excel pivot tables. Collaborated with different stakeholders from MAGNET to understand client’s businesses, their operational and manufacturing strengths. Recommended new product lines based on data driven analysis. Responsible for introducingproductsin new categories resulting in 40% increase in overall portfolio. Environment: MS SQL Server  2012/ 2014/ 2016 , Microsoft Management Studio, Microsoft Visual Studio, Oracle 11g, Access DB, Power BI, Power Pivot, Tableau. Confidential BI Developer Responsibilities: Interacted with Team and involved in Analysis, Design and Developing databases using ER Diagram, Normalization and relational database concepts. Involved in Design, Development and testing of the system. Developed SQL Server Stored Procedures, Tuned SQL Queries (using Indexes and Execution Plan). Developed User Defined Functionsand createdViews. Created Triggers to maintain the Referential Integrity. Implemented Exceptional Handling. Worked on client requirement and wrote Complex SQL Queries to generate Crystal Reports Creating and automating the regular Jobs. Tuned and Optimized SQL Queriesusing Execution Plan and Profiler. Rebuilding Indexes and Tablesas part of Performance Tuning Exercise. Wrote SQL Scripts to select the data from the source. Designed and implemented data access stored procedures and triggers for automating tasks. Extensively used Joins and sub-Queries to simplify complex queries involving multiple tables. Involved inperforming database Backup and Recovery. Worked on Documentation using MS word. Environment: SQL Server 2000 Enterprise Edition, Windows 2000/NT, UNIX, Excel, SQL Profiler, Replication, DTS, MS Access, T-SQL, Crystal Reports 