SUMMARY Over 8+ years IT working experience in SQL Server database development and data warehouse development performed in various enterprise environment. Working knowledge and experiences of software development life cycle (SDLC) and project methodologies, as well as tools and techniques within each phase (e.g., requirement elicitation, data dictionaries, data diagram, ERD, programming languages, technical platforms, standards and procedures). Hands on working experience with SQL Server and T - SQL in maintaining system security (e.g., manage user logins, grant access roles and create services account), constructing triggers, tables, user functions, views, indexes, stored procedures, user profiles, relational database models, and data integrity. Microsoft Cloud based database development & maintenance with the latest self-service business intelligenceplatform and software. Expert experience with the MS BI stack including Analysis Services, Integration Services, Reporting Services. Experience as a MS SQL Server database architect/designer/developer/administrator on large scale software development projects. Solid knowledge and working experience in the following areas (in details): Installing, configuring and managing SQL 2005/2008/2012 servers, migrating existing applications to SQL 20012/2014. Transferring/Rewriting DTS packages to SSIS packages; Setting up SQL 2008/2012/2014 Database mirroring. SQL database design, architecture, data modeling (conceptual, logical and physical) using Erwin. Data warehousing and analysis skills: ETL tools, OLTP, OLAP (MOLAP, HOLAP, and ROLAP), UDM, Data Mining, MDX, Transactional and Multi-Dimensional modeling skills (star schema and snowflake schema). Expertise in OLAP Cube designing and construction, SQL Reports development, Ad Hoc Report Model designing and SSIS package development. Resolving database performance issues, tuning issues, database capacity planning issues. SQL Management Studio, Visual Studio, Enterprise Manager and Query Analyzer, Analysis Services, Profiler. Performing administrative tasks: backup/restore, security management, data integration and synchronization. Database storage and database upgrades planning, data integration maintaining. Database maintenance: DTS packages, SSIS packages, replication, log shipping. Hands on experience and outstanding knowledge of high availability SQL Server solutions, including replication, mirroring and SQL Server clustering Proficient in creating Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, Component Diagrams, Collaboration Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, and Class Diagrams. Solid background in Finance, banking and marketing services field. Strong troubleshooting and problem solving skills. Strong ability to prioritize multiple tasks. Excellent communication skills, proactive, self-managing and teamwork spirits. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Database:  SQL Server 2000/2005/ 2008/2012/2014 Enterprise/Management StudioSQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, SQL/PLUSPerformance TuningCapacity PlanningInstallation, Upgrade, & MigrationODBC, OLE DB, DTS, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS Cloud/Database:  PowerBI, Azure, Tabular, Sharepoint Operating Systems:  Windows Enterprise 2008/2012, Advanced Server/2000 Server/Windows 2008 Professional/Windows XP Professional/NT 4.0 Server, AS400, VMWare Applications:  Erwin R7.2, ER Studio, Sybase Powerdesigner 15 UML:  Visual Studio /.NET, Performance Point Server2007Client / Server Language:  C/C++, Java, .NET, Visual C#, HTML, XML, ASP, JSP, JavaScript, PowerShell,T-SQL,MDX.XML/A Protocols:  HTTP, TCP/IP, FTP PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Rocky Mount, NC Database Developer/Sr. SQL Server DBA Responsibilities: Design, developer and maintain data warehouse projects and database conversion project on IN-Memory OLTP for faster database retrieval and processing Design & developed ETL packages, triggers, stored procedures and functions for data warehouse and payroll system. Developed workflow ETL packages for Perceptive Enterprise workflow system between SQL Server and AS400. Projects lead on database conversion from traditional database environment to cloud based database platform with all trigger, stored procedure & functions. Projects lead for Account Payable data warehouse project development and implementation. Responsible for design, development, implementation and maintenance of internal data warehouse consist of sales, AP, inventory, logistic and time attendance. Developed and optimized indexes, complex views, constraints, triggers, and stored procedures for large MS SQL Server database. Created and developed the stored procedures, triggers, views, and user defined functions to handle complex business rules, activity log, error log, and audit analysis Developed and created data dictionary, tables, views, indexes, and functions advanced queries for databases by using Query Analyzer and SQL Server Enterprise Manager Implemented Cloud database solutions for tabular/multidimensional data warehouse as part of self service customer relationship platforms. Designed, developed and implemented cluster service for windows & database data warehouse environment specifically designed to provide high availability capacity for business intelligence platform. Database performance tuning, performance tracking & monitoring, proactively resolve potential bottleneck issues related to hardware or software. Implemented server active/active cluster environment, data mirroring for online ordering authentication, and log shipping for internal inventory/logistic applications. Generated database SQL scripts and deployed databases including installation and configuration Developed and implemented maintenance stored procedures Developed and implemented disaster recovery and archiving procedures Consolidated databases to accommodate SQL Server 2012 new license policies. Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014 , Windows 2003/2008/2012 Server, Visual Studio 2008/2010/2015 , Powerdesigner 15.3, SQL Diagnostic Doctor, VMWare, Solarwind Orion monitoring software, Sharepoint Server 2010, BIDS. Confidential, Mechanicsville VA Database Developer Responsibilities: Design and developed POS (Point of Sale) database system including access controlling, high availability, performance monitoring and tuning, capacity planning. Lead architect in POS and CRM data warehouse projects. Developed and maintained ETL SSIS packages, analysis cubes and business reports to accommodate business changes. Capacity planning & Load testing with VLDB and rapid transaction system. Implemented server active/active cluster environment, data mirroring for Purchasing application authentication, and log shipping for internal inventory/logistic applications Developed SSIS project to manage and monitor 300+ SQL Server express databases. Initiated SSAS projects, dimension definition and MDX execution in business oriented environment. Created, managed, and delivered interactive web-based reports for SharePoint Dashboard to support daily operations. Created and customized SharePoint KPI lists and Web Pages for key business metrics using SharePoint designer. Monitored the status of all databases and servers including CPU, memory, I/O, space Management, block, and dead lock. Tuned performance, optimized databases, managed system securities, tracked logs and issues Design cross functional critical business reports and scorecards. Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008, Windows 2003/2008 Server, Visual Studio 2008, ER/Studio, Sharepoint Server 2007, BIDS. Confidential, La Mirada CA SQL Server Database Administrator/Data warehouse developer Responsibilities: Created, managed, and delivered interactive web-based reports for SharePoint Dashboard to support daily operations. Created and customized SharePoint KPI lists and WebPages for key business metrics using SharePoint designer. Monitored the status of all databases and servers including CPU, memory, I/O, space Management, block, and dead lock. Tuned performance, optimized databases, managed system securities, tracked logs and issues Design and create SSRS for Compliance department based on Anti-Laundry Compliance Policies. Scheduled and monitored maintenance activities of SQL Server 2000/2005 to meet business requirements activities including database consistency check, data backup & restore strategy, index defragmentation. Managed the production, development, and test database including access controlling, high availability, performance monitoring and tuning, capacity planning. Maintained SQL Jobs which refresh Data Warehouse, process cubes, and backup databases. Modified and tuned SSIS packages, and changed cube designs to accommodate business changes. Created new SSIS packages, standard tables and scheduled jobs to support reporting needs. Initiated SSAS projects, dimension definition and MDX execution in business oriented environment. Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008, Windows 2003 Server, Visual Studio 2008, ER/Studio, Sharepoint Server 2007, ProClarity. Confidential  Data Entry/Programmer/SQL Server Database developer Responsibilities: Maintained day to day operating procedures for SQL Server databases Planned and coordinated database security measures Created reports, notifications, and emails for system errors, insufficient resources, fatal database errors, hardware errors, and security breach for management Designed and implemented SQL Server 2000/2005 databases for mission-critical applications by using Microsoft .NET Enterprise Application Architecture Collected requirement from OCSD online LIMS database infrastructure Monitored and tuned databases to meet the performance and availability requirements of online systems and multiple applications Developed and optimized indexes, complex views, constraints, triggers, and stored procedures for large MS SQL Server database. Created and developed the stored procedures, triggers, views, and user defined functions to handle complex business rules, activity log, error log, and audit analysis Developed and created data dictionary, tables, views, indexes, and functions advanced queries for databases by using Query Analyzer and SQL Server Enterprise Manager Generated database SQL scripts and deployed databases including installation and configuration Developed and implemented maintenance stored procedures Developed and implemented disaster recovery and archiving procedures Capacity planning for database and platform resource utilization to meet user needs and responded to anticipate technological innovations Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005, Windows Enterprise Server 2003, IIS 6.0, .NET, Microsoft Visio 2003, Microsoft Reporting Service. 