SUMMARY: Software Engineer with 8 years’ experience in designing, developing and implementing .Net applications. Solid understanding of Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOD), UML and RDBMS concepts. Hands on experience in design using Object Oriented Programming Principles like Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism, reusability and Design patterns like Abstract factory, Singleton, Object pool a standard solution to common problems in software design. Experienced in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) - Feasibility study, Project Analysis, Requirements, Design, Development, Testing, Documentation, UAT, Deployment and support Experienced in working with Iterative Agile Programming Methodologies, Waterfall methodologies, Scrum and Test-driven development (TDD). Demonstrated proficiency in development using Microsoft.NET technologies like SharePoint Server, WCF, LINQ, ASP.Net 4.0/3.5, ASP.NET MVC 4.0/3.0, C#(4.0/3.5), VB.NET and AJAX Extensions, jQUERY with MS SQL Server (SQL 2008 R2 / 2005) and Oracle 10g/9i as database. Experience in web UI technologies using HTML, VBScript, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular Js, Node Js as well as XML, XSL and XSLT. Extensive experience in using SQL Management Studio, SQL Server Business Intelligence Solutions like SQL Server Reporting Services, SQL Server Integration Service Packages and Crystal Reports. Experience in using ASP.NET AJAX framework for creating efficient and interactive web applications that work across all popular browsers. Experience in developing applications using Web Services, WCF, REST, WPF, and WWF,SOAP, NHibernate and GIT Experienced in XML Web Services (SOAP, WSDL and UDDI), Service Oriented Architecture SOA concepts using .NET Framework. Experience in developing applications using AngualrJS-Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc. Expertise in creating Views, Partial Views, Strongly Typed Views, Sections, Areas etc. in ASP.NET MVC. Extensive Experience with ORM technologies like Entity Framework 4.1 Database First, Code First and performance tuning in EF. Extensive experience in creating PL/SQL, T-SQL Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Views. Good experience in developing Configured and Consumed Web Services using Windows Communication foundation (WCF) in C#/VB.NET. Knowledge in testing frame work tools like Karma and Jasmine for JS application. Expertise in developing Graphical user interfaces using Silverlight XAML and C# for providing a more compelling, engaging and rich media experience for viewers Good Experience in configuring and managing IIS. Experience using Web Strom IDE for smarter JavaScript Coding. Knowledge using .Net Mocking Framework like NSubstitue. Experience in ADO.NET components such as Data Connection, Data Command, Data Readers, Datasets and Data Adapter. Experience in designing and branding Master Pages utilizing Server Controls, User Controls, Data Grid control, Form Validation controls, Custom controls and CSS. Experience in securing web applications using ASP.NET authentication (Forms-based Authentication) and authorization mechanisms like authorizing Users, Roles and User Account Impersonation. Experience in using Lambda Expressions, Query Expressions, Anonymous Types and Extension methods with Language-Integrated Query LINQ (LINQ to XML, LINQ to SQL and LINQ to objects). Sound knowledge in writing T-SQL queries, stored procedures, Triggers along with Data Transformation Services (DTS), views, user defined functions, packages, database performance tuning, indexing, database backup and restore. Building web applications with ASP.NET MVC 3.0/4.0, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, HTML, XHTML, CSS, and FireBug etc. Experience in using Team Foundation Server 2010/2008, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe for Version Controlling. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Programming Languages: C++, C#4.0/3.0/2.0, VB.NET, T-Sql, PL/SQL Web Technologies: .NET Framework 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0 /1. x, ASP.NET, MVC 2/3, Silverlight 4.0/3.0, ASP.Net Ajax 3.0/2.0, JavaScript, JQuery Xml Technologies: XAML, XML,XDOCUMENT,XSLT, XPATH, XSL UI Technologies: Win Forms, WPF, ASP.NET Web Forms IDE Tools: Visual Studio 2010/2008/2005, Sql Server Management Studio Databases: MS SQL SERVER 2012/ 2010/2008/2005, MSAccess 2010/2007/2003, Oracle 10g/9i/8i Modeling Tools: UML, MS Visio 2010/2007 Reporting Tools: Sql Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Reports 10/8.5/8 Servers: Windows Server 2003/NT, Microsoft IIS (7.0/6.0/5.0/4.0 ) Middleware: WCF,ADO.NET 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, MSMQ, Web Services, Enterprise Library 4.1/3.1 Version Control Tools: Visual SourceSafe2005, Subversion, Team Foundation Server 2010/2008,Sharepoint 07/10/13 Other Utilities: ILdasm, Nant, gacutil, Sn.exe, Ants PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential . - Canonsburg, PA Senior .net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance. Writing Software Requirement Specifications & Test cases, Object Oriented Analysis and Design using UML with Microsoft Visio 2007. Developed solutions for diverse programming scenarios in C#, employing Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts such as: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction. Development was done using Agile methodology with daily scrums, and continuous integration using the SDLC process to deliver higher-quality software far more rapidly. Created & hosted WCF Services and also used different bindings to make it available to different types of clients. Responsible for developing the reusable Components on UI (Views) by developing the Partial Views, View state, and reusable components for implementing the business rules with C#. Responsible for making AJAX Calls for the UI Interactions to the Controller Actions using jQuery and getting the Data back as JSON and parsing it onto the UI. Implemented the project using ASP.NET, C# and back-end database as SQL Server 2012 Used various Telerik controls, Infragistics Net Advantage developed User Controls to design custom UI to meet the requirements and to increase the ease of use for customers. Worked on applications software development efforts from deployment through the maintenance support process. Written Stored Procedures in SQL Server 2008 used EDMX as conceptual Model and LINQ to Entities to bind the data to Grid View, Data List, Details view, Repeaters, Dataset Classes for data manipulation. Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) using Master Pages, HTML, JavaScript and CSS classes Used jQuery and AJAX to make the User Interface more responsive. Responsible for designing and developing the database objects like Tables, Views, and Complex T-SQL Store Procedures involving Joins and using Temporary Tables, UDF (User Defined Functions) Implemented CRUD functionality with Entity framework (ORM) in ASP.NET MVC and implemented sorting, filtering and paging with Entity framework in MVC. Integrated Angular.js framework controls to support HTML Controls. Leveraged WCF mechanisms like sessioning, Instance management, concurrency to make our services more robust and scalable. Used C# language in developing the business logic, where in extensively implemented the Object Oriented Programming (OOP) Functionalities and Win forms. Responsible in created and consumed WCF (Windows Communication Foundation) using C#. Implemented Data binding between WPF and WCF Services. Developed Reports using SQL Reporting Services and implemented Optimized SQL Stored Procedures Used Team foundation Server (TFS) for version control and Shelve pending changes of the source code along with the maintenance of the builds and the relevant documents of the same. Created ETL packages using SSIS to move data from various heterogeneous data sources to centralized database. Environment: Microsoft SQL Server 2012,Visual Studio 2012, C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, MVC 4.0, User Interfaces, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, WCF, AJAX,Anjular Js, Entity Framework, IIS 7.5 . Confidential, New York, NY .net Developer Responsibilities: Worked with the architects in order to develop Business logic, processes, classes and sequence diagrams. Implemented ADO.NET with C# in Visual Studio 2008 to establish connections between server-side web application and a MS SQL Server 2008 database. Implemented and consumed Web Services using WCF. Creating user defined functions, stored procedures and views using SQL Server 2008. Extensive development using ASP.Net, C# 3.5 using Web Applications and OOPS Concepts. Used ASP.NET MVC 2.0 for Presentation layer and SQL Server 2008 for Data Layer. Used VB.NET language for code behind pages to use the OOPs functionalities. Used JavaScript functions to enable and disable buttons to prevent missing information for records. Used SSIS to read flat files, CSV's and Excel files and import to SQL Server. Provided session management and cookie handling in the applications. Used Team Foundation Server to version control the code and various artifacts. Worked closely with QA for bug fixes to ensure the efficiency and accuracy of the code. Actively participated in daily stand-up meetings, go-no-go meetings, and bi-weekly sprint meetings as part of Agile methodology. Environment: C# 3.5, ASP.NET 3.5, MVC 2.0, ADO.NET, VB.NET, HTML, JavaScript, SSIS, SQL Server 2008, Visual Studio 2008, TFS, MS Excel. Confidential - Houston, TX .net Developer Responsibilities: Headquartered in Houston, Texas, Confidential is a residential mortgage company with strong experience in all aspects of mortgage loan servicing. Owned and operated by some of the best known names in the industry, Confidential brings the power of its deep experience to customize loan servicing options for each homeowner. Our loan servicing team boasts an average of more than 16 years of mortgage loan and credit management experience. Developed web pages using ASP.NET and code behind in C# and used MVC pattern for development of web based application. Used on Grid View control, HTML controls and Server controls. Used Custom Validators, Validation Controls and performed validations both on client side and server side Developed SQLserverStored Procedures, Triggers,Views,andCursorsfor accessing the database. Used SSRS Reports as reporting tool to feed data from Oracle 10g to the reports. Used WPF for developing advance visuals on applications. Used Client Web Services to get product information in real time such as product quantity, price. Designed windows mobile app to meet the requirements and to increase the ease of user. Involved in modifications to the XML requests and response as per the Business Requirements. Used in Master Pages, Web User Controls and Custom Controls in developing the front end application and multi-thread web applications using C#. Implemented SOA architecture with Windows Services, web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, and XML. Designed and developed several Windows forms using VB.NET. Managing the whole project and 5 offshore team members Initiate build and deploy applications to UAT and QA Server Identify and fix complex part in application within very short time period Managing, maintaining, developing and deploying applications and databases in response to business needs Suggest solutions to business problems of the product owners Responsible for reviewing work products and deploying the application to the QA environment Responsible for fixing bugs, trouble shooting, debugging issues in QA and Production server Received appreciations multiple times from client, to resolve business issues and initiative new QA Sign off process. Involved in the development of back-end stored procedures using TSQL, which were accessed by the ADO.net components from the business layer and in turn by ASP.net pages. Developed SQL Server stored procedures and queries. Developed and Consumed Web Services using WCF. Involved in integration testing of whole application and used SVN for code bases Maintenance. Environment: C#.Net, Visual Studio 2010, .NET Framework 4.0, SQL Server 2008, WCF, ADO.NET, IIS 6.0,CSS,JavaScript, SVN, WPF, Oracle 10g, SSRS, XML,VB.NET, Web Services, Visual Basic 6.0, Telerik Controls Confidential  .net Developer Responsibilities: Worked as a team member (Team of four developers) and was involved in complete lifecycle of the project (Requirement Analysis, Design, Coding, QA and Implementation of the Project). Worked closely with our QA team and Production Support group for the final release of the application Involved design and development of Web pages using ASP.NET, HTML and JavaScript. Involved in Coding using C#.net and ADO.net. Created web pages using controls like Data grids, Repeaters, Textbox, Button, and Dropdown List etc. All the validations are done using the server and client side validation controls. Developed and designed C#. Net pages required for registration and Extensively used XSLT for transforming the data and XML in Business Layer. Created Tables and Indexes in Oracle and involved in writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Views. Involved in debugging the ASP.NET code and fixing the bugs. Environment: Visual Studio. NET, .NET Framework, ASP.NET, C#. Net, XML, IIS, Win 2000, VSS, JavaScript, MS Visio, ADO.NET, Oracle. Confidential  .NET Developer Responsibilities: Designed and developed web forms in ASP.NET & C#.NET using .NET Framework 3.0 Developed the application Framework in ASP.NET primarily using C#.NET with the business logic implemented using .Net Assemblies Extensively used C#.NET to develop server side event handling and components to handle business process. Extensively worked with ASP.NET Web Site Administration Tool (WAT) to create Roles, Login Controls, Authentication and Authorization for Site Security. Developed GUI using ASP.NET Server Controls, User Controls and Custom Controls and Master Pages, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for consistent look. Written JavaScript code for validating the simple control instead of sending them to the server side which is killing the performance of the web pages. Extensive use of Web Services, SOAP, XML, XSL to expose the reports to facilitate information sharing. Created Data Tables and Applied the Web Service Enhancements to the Web Service so that the reliability increases. Created Data Tables and have written Stored Procedures for all the Transactions in and out of the Database using SQL server 2008. Created a Data Layer object in C# language which gives the common classes of methods to execute stored procedures into a Data Set, Data Table and Data Reader. Performed NUnit Testing according to the business requirements. Used Microsoft Visual Source Safe (VSS) for the purpose of version control. Environment: .NET Framework 3.0, ASP.NET, C#, COM+, Win Forms, ADO.NET, XML, Web Services, HTML, SQL Server2008, IIS 6.0, Windows XP, VSS, NUnit, Visual Studio 2008. 