SUMMARY: 15+ years of Overall IT consulting experience. Worked on ETL Tools like DataStage and SAP BODS. Worked on all phases of Datawarehouse Project cycle from requirements gathering, ETL Development, Testing, Warranty and Production support. Worked on Datastage Information Analyzer for data quality assessment and profiling Certified in DataStage v8.5. Knowledge on Quality Stage Worked on ETL Conversion projects from Datastage versions 7.5 to 8 and 8.5 to 11.7 Worked on Database conversion projects from DB2 to Teradata Worked on both Agile and Waterfall project methodologies Hands on Experience in Developing Unix, PL/SQL, SQL scripting and XML Hands on Experience on Mainframe and MF scheduling Good Knowledge on Banking Domain, worked for multiple banks like Confidential, Confidential, Confidential and Confidential Experience on Guidewire Policy Centre, Billing Centre, Claims Centre and Contact Manager Have hands on Experience in creating Mapping, low level and high level detailed design documents. Worked on Datastage version Upgrades and Conversion of DB2 to Teradata. Expert at Designing, Developing, Coding and Testing DataStage and SAP BODS Jobs. Have solid exposure in overall SDLC. Worked within demanding project schedules and environments, have excellent analytical and problem solving skills and a motivated team player. TECHNICAL SKILLS: ETL Tools:  DataStage 7.5/8.0/8.5/9.1/11.5/11.7, SAP BODS 3/4.0 Databases:  Teradata, DB2,Oracle, SQL Server, NetezzaProgramming SQL, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, XMLTools RTC, Toad, HPQC, Messageway Server, Erwin Environment:  UNIX, Linux Scheduling Tools Control:  - M, AutoSys, Mainframe Data Quality:  Datastage Information Analyzer 11.5 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential  Datastage Developer Responsibilities: Developed Datastage jobs to read and transform data from various legacy systemsand load data into Data warehouse Oversight the vendor(Deloitte) for different phases of project with their deliverables Review the design and development of the team Worked on SQL Scripting and Datastage Job Design and Development Involved in environment setup of Datastage 11.7 server Worked on the conversion of jobs from version Datastage 8.5 to 11.7 Work with business teams for requirement gathering and create the mapping document for the ETL Provided improvement ideas/actions that provide a material benefit for delivering better quality or improving productivity Implementation of Best practices to Improve the client system Co-ordinate with different teams and ensure the projects are 100% compliant with the process. Confidential  Senior Datastage Information Analyzer/Developer Responsibilities: Design and Developed Datastage jobs in Version 11.5 Create Data Quality Rules and Rule Definitions in Datastage Information Analyzer Interacted with End user community to understand the business requirements and in identifying data sources. Worked on creating mapping document for the development. Documented ETL test plans, test cases, test scripts, and validations based on design specifications for unit testing, system testing, functional testing. Participated in Daily Scrum Meetings as part of Agile Methodology Coordinate with team members and administer all onsite and offshore work packages. Create tasks in JIRA as per the Scrum process Confidential  Senior Datastage Technical Lead Responsibilities: Design and Developed Datastage jobs in Version 9.1 Perform Unit testing of ETL and related components (Mainframe job, Unix Scripts and Loading database) Worked on multiple projects(Loyalty, EDW, Freight Management) at the same time Read data from Mainframe file and load into Oracle/Netezza database Worked on Unix Shell Scripting Worked independently in End to End implementation (requirement gathering to warranty support) Transfer files to different vendors using Messageway Server Schedule/Trigger the jobs using mainframe scheduling Worked on Change Request Process, creation and Implementation of the C.R Created detailed design documents for the C.R Implementation Created design documentation for the developed jobs Confidential Datastage and Testing Lead Responsibilities: Developed DataStage jobs to read and transform data from various legacy systems Worked on SQL Scripting and DataStage Job Design and Development Involved in testing of the Data for Data Marts and Reports of Guidewire Policy Centre, Billing Centre, Claims Centre and Contact Manager Work with business teams for requirement gathering and performed an end to end for defect fixes - Analysis, Build, Test and Delivery role Provided improvement ideas/actions that provide a material benefit for delivering better quality or improving productivity Communicating between the Onshore and Offshore teams Implementation of Best practices to Improve the client system Trained the Offshore team with the client system Co-ordinate with different teams and ensure the projects are 100% compliant with the process. Provided KT for the BAT Testing team with respect to the GuideWire DataModel Confidential  Development and Production Support Lead Responsibilities: Design and Build ETL Jobs using SAP Business Object Data Services (BODS) ETL tool. Managed the team deliverables. Involved in Design reviews and Code reviews Scheduled BODS jobs using Autosys Worked on Scripts to invoke the jobs Created Run book for each BODS job for the production support team Worked as an active member of the framework team, helping to design and develop different modules of the framework. Provided on the Control framework and the Control data model for new developers. Used IBM rational as the version control tool. Worked on ESB servers Worked on checking the MQ depths Provided support and guidance to the offshore team members. Impact Analysis of critical jobs when they have failed in production. Working on Incident management and Change management Worked on BODS Administrator to create projects and manage privileges for the team Root cause analysis of the critical incidents Co-ordinate with different teams and assure the projects are in 100% compliance with the process. Confidential  Development Lead Responsibilities: Design, Code and Testing of DataStage Jobs Managing the team deliverables Preparing Technical Detailed Designs Provided support and guidance to the team Functional Walkthroughs Code reviews Designed and Developed Jobs in DataStage 8.01 Tool Involved in the Architecture of the project Created Unit Test Case documents (UTC) for the each Business Transaction Involved in Configuration management Involved in the Resolution of Client tickets Managed team and the deliverables Meeting with the French counterpart to resolved the issues Confidential  Development Lead Responsibilities: Involved in Conversion of DB2 to Teradata database Implementation Involved in Conversion of jobs from Datastage 7.5 to 8.0 Worked as a Team lead and Managed a team of 30 people Scheduled the Jobs through Control-M and Developed Unix Scripts Understanding the requirements and then explaining it to the team Involved in Development, Testing and Production Support Analysis of the current environment Conversion of Datastage Jobs to Datastage v 8.0 Converting UNIX scripts and SQL scripts to be Teradata Compliant Confidential  ETL Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Implementing the Anti-Money laundering system Developed Datastage Jobs and managed them using UNIX. Analyzed the specification document and Created the detailed design document Worked on JIL files for the scheduling of the ETL jobs through Autosys Unit testing, System Testing and UTC preparation Involved in System testing and handled production Support. Confidential  Production Support Responsibilities: Studied the current system and Data Warehouse requirements Preparation of Test Strategy and Test Planning documents Preparation of Test procedures after analyzing the requirements. Sending Daily Status mail Checking the Status of ETL Jobs every one hour. Checking the UNIX Autosys jobs. Handled user queries and Involved in Error Handling.