SUMMARY Over 8+ years of experience as Oracle PL/SQL, Forms, and Reports developer. Extensive experience in developing applications using Oracle Forms / Reports. Experience in almost all teh versions of SQL. Extensively used PL/SQL to build Oracle Reports 10g and views for processing data, enforcing referential integrity, and needed business rules. Strong PL/SQL programming experience in creating Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, and other database objects using SQL, PL/SQL, and Shell Scripts. Experienced in Dynamic SQL, PL/SQL Collections, and Exception handling. Experience in developing and maintaining complex stored procedures, triggers, functions and adhoc SQL scripts in a highly normalized Sybase database comprised of 180+ tables. Experience in creating SQL loader scripts to load data from flat files into teh database and creating External Tables to manage data which is store at teh OS level. Expertise in Database Performance Tuning, Performance Monitoring and Optimization using Oracle Hints, EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF, SQL Trace and Table Partitioning. Experience in advanced PL/SQL concepts like Bulk collect, Multi Table insert, PL/SQL table, Cursors, Ref Cursors, Nested tables, Records, Types, and Dynamic SQL for DML operations for better performance. Extensively worked wif third party database tools like TOAD and SQL Developer. Full lifecycle experience on enterprise - scale large database driven IT projects, Web based applications(c#.net). Has ability for timely issue reporting, Issue tracking for resolution and Team working. Providing solutions and support assistance to development team for various business requirements. Technology Interest Areas: SQL Developer/DBA/Data Architect/Solution Architect. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: Windows XP&NT,Vista,7,8 RDBMS: SQL Server ... and MS-Excel 7.0, MS-Access 2000 Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, Sybase/Transact SQL, Visual Basic, C# Software/ Applications/ Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, Enterprise Manager, SQL Profiler, SSIS, SSAS, SSMS, SSRS, PPS, DTS, Business Intelligence Development Studio, Database Tuning Server, Crystal Reports, Dash Reports, Tableau, Power BI. Development Studio and Data Transformation Services (DTS), Team Foundation Server, GIT Source Control, SVN Source Control, Erwin, Red Gate, Lite Speed Design Methodologies: Logical and physical database design, UML, Database Design and Normalization, Data Modeling Architecture: Relational DBMS, Client-Server Architecture, OLAP, OLTP Other Tools: Erwin, Visio, Visual SourceSafe, MS Office Suite WEB TECHNOLOGIES: HTML,DHTML, XML, XSL, Data Warehousing OLAP, OLTP, Snow Flake Schema Modeling, FACT and Dimension Tables. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Hopkins, Minnesota SQL Developer/Sybase Developer Responsibilities: Involved in database development and creating SQL scripts. Also experience writing complex T - SQL queries to support needs from business. Involved in Requirement Study, TDD Creation, UI Design, Development, Implementation, code Review, Validation & Testing, Deployment, and client interactions. Worked on Agile methodology, sprint meetings and every day stand-ups. Worked closely wif customers and IT management and staff to provide application development and production support. Helped to support teh Application suit wifin Quotit for open enrolment period, done some UAT testing for teh applications. Responsible for Data Migration of health insurance (Action) from Oracle to SQL server 2012 using SSIS via Microsoft management studio 2012 and writing some reports using Microsoft SQL server business intelligence studio. Used MSRS harvest tool to check-in and check-out of teh code or rdl file to store, run, view, edit and revert to different versions of teh design in case of a system crash. Defined High Level Data Architecture for ETL & BI Solutions & Framework Design, Prototyping, ETL Loading Strategy Definition, Data stage, Data Governance & RDBMS standards definition and enforcement, Definition of Data Stage Best Practices & Coding Standards. Developed complex T-SQL code such as Stored Procedures, functions, triggers, Indexes, and views for teh application. Developed and maintained complex stored procedures(800+), triggers(270+), functions and adhoc SQL scripts in a highly normalized Sybase database comprised of 180+ tables. Analysing SQL data, identifying issues, and modifying teh SQL scripts to fix teh issues. Review every day applications and make sure they are accepted. Tuned and Optimized SQL Queries using execution plan and profiler. Used SOAP UI calls, T-SQL to run daily tasks and provide daily report to business and IT at teh end of each day. Environment: T-SQL, MS SQL server 2012, 2008R2, SSDT, Soap UI, Sybase, VB.NET, EXCEL. Confidential - Dallas, TX MS SQL Server/SSIS/SSRS Developer Responsibilities: Involved in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process by analysing business requirements and understanding teh functional work flow of information from source systems to destination systems. Design and Development of SSIS Packages to import data from Oracle database in form of flat files transform and load data into SQL Server database. Implemented Error handling through TRY - CATCH method and used CTEs. Created Clustered/Non-clustered indexes on tables, created views, stored procedures. Efficient use of Joins and sub-queries in queries dat retrieve data from multiples tables. Transformation of Data into SQL Server database by development of views, staging tables and load data into tables using Stored Procedures. Involved in development and debugging of complex T-SQL procedures and functions. Upgraded SSIS packages for an entire Application from using Project wizard and successfully deployed packages. Managed teh complete migration of SQL Server 2008 R2 to SQL Server 2012. Used Automated Processing Environment (APE) Application for Automating daily SQL jobs and for execution of packages automatically. Involved in Waterfall model of SDLC and gathered business requirements from Business Analysts. Developed Package labels for test and production environments and execution of SSIS packages automatically. Provided organizational reporting and timely reports utilizing SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services) Using SSRS for development of reports for Business users from different sources like tables, stored procedures, and development of various types of reports. Development of different types of reports like Parameterized reports, Drill down reports, Ad- hoc reports, Snapshot reports and Sub reports. Deployed SSRS reports into Report manager and managed reports subscriptions, delivery, generation, rendering. Maintained and Supported Microsoft Team Foundation Server(TFS) to allow for a secure code, SSIS Packages and Reports and use as a repository to compare modified and unmodified code. Built Reporting database which is a mirror database to teh existing OLTP database, used for reporting purposes only. Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008/2008 R2, Visual Studio 2005/2008/2010 , T-SQL, MS Access, MS- Excel, SQL Server Integration Services, SQL Server Reporting Services, VB Script, C#. Confidential SQL Server/BI Developer Responsibilities: Participated in developing Logical design of database incorporating business logic and user requirement and building entity relationship (ER) diagrams. Experienced in writing T - SQL scripts, complex stored procedures, functions, triggers and complex joins and sub queries in SQL Server Management studio (SSMS) Created Data migration utilities (Import & Export, Bulk Insert) from text to SQL Server. Used SSIS Packages for extracting, cleaning, transforming, and loading data into data warehouse. Applied various data transformations like Slowly Changing Dimension, Aggregate, Sort, Multicasting, Conditional Split, Derived column etc. Worked on SSIS script task, look up transformations and data flow tasks using T- SQL and Visual Basic (VB) scripts. Written DDL / DML Triggers as per teh requirements. Participated in designing and developing Data Warehouses, Data marts and Business Intelligence using multi-dimensional models such as Star Schemas and Snow Flake Schema for developing Cubes in SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) Created Data marts for Staging and Production databases for Operational Data Stores (ODS) Analysed multidimensional cubes in SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) by using slicing and dicing. Scheduled report subscriptions, publishing, and set up SMTP for automated email generation wif report links and schedule jobs and roles using SQL Server Agent. Designed SSRS reports wif sub reports, expressions and queries, and prepared Ad-Hoc reports through report builders. Design, Development, Implementation, and support of ETL process involving various data sources and destinations using SSIS. Created SSIS packages to extract data from OLTP to OLAP systems and scheduled Jobs to call teh packages and Stored Procedures. Environment: MS SQL Server 2008/2005, Excel (pivot tables), SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, T-SQL, VB Script, Visual studio 2005, Erwin, Windows Server 2003. 