SUMMARY Software Engineer with over 8 Year of professional IT experience in all the aspects of Business intelligence Leveraging Power BI applications with a strong background in Database developoment and expertise in full life cycle development including planing, analysis, design, Implementation and maintenance using BI tools. Experienced in all phases of the SDLC for Decision Support Systems including Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing using MS SQL Server 2000, 2005 suite of products (SSRS, SSAS, SSIS, DTS) Expertise in the usage of ETL tools including SSIS, DTS for large - scale Data warehouse implementation Projects involving conversion of data from heterogeneous data sources including SQL Server 2000/ 2005/2008/2012 , DB2, Oracle and Mainframe Files. Expertise in the Best Practices related to the development, implementation and production support of ETL processes using Bulk Copy Process (BCP), Data Transformation Services (DTS) and SSIS packages with MS SQL Server 2000/2005. Knowledge ofHadoopand Hive and Hive's analytical functions. Used Microsoft Power BI Query to extract data from external sources and modify data to certain format as required in Excel and created SSIS packages to load excel sheets from PC to database Proficient in the ergonomic design of Dashboard and Report layouts for canned reports as well as Adhocs with advanced drill-down, sorting and filter capabilities. Ability to Inquire, Integrate, Analyze, Conceptualize, Visualize, Formalize, Communicate, Enable and Assist - end to end implementation of world classBIsolutions. Developing module usingCosmos, SSIS, SSAS (Tabular Model), Power BI, SQL Server 2014 Hands-on experience Relational Database Modeling and Dimensional Modeling in combination with SSAS to develop OLAP cubes having Star/Snowflake schemas. Developed SSIS Packages to load date from different sources likeTeradata, Oracle. Experience in designing MDX expressions/queries for accessing SSAS cubes. Experience in using SQL Server Reporting Services 2005 (SSRS) for the development of role based Dashboards and Ad hoc Reports to monitor Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and support operational and strategic reporting requirements. Having knowledge in creating pipelines and performing some Control Flow activities in thatand copying data from on-premises toCloudEnvironment. Proficient in designing and handling sql databases, DB tables, views, store procedures, functions, triggers, CTE's to assist efficient data manipulation and data consistency and used DDL and DML commands for various business application Manage Data pipelines onAWS(amazon cloud). Experienced in reporting services, power BI, crystal reports using MS SQL server and in supporting services MDX technology of the analysis services. Expertise in designing, supporting complex reports like Drill-Down, Drill-Through, Parameterized, Matrix, and formatting Reports using SQL Server Reporting Services SSRS) based on client requirement. Expertise in Implementing, Managing and MaintainingBIsolutions using SQL Server 2008 R2/2012, T-SQL, SSRS and UNIX. Experienced in data warehousing concepts like star schema's, snow flake schema's, normalization, de-normalization, relational data structure, non-relational data structure. Created SSIS packages with complicated transformations like Lookup, Derived Column, Condition Split, Multicast, Sort, Union All, Cache Transform, and Conditional Split, Fuzzy Look-ups, Checksum, Conditional Splits and Event Handlers, Error Handlers etc. Major areas of skill set are SQL,AWSData platform. Published reports to Azure-based power BI services(pro) and schedule subscription and expert in creating, configuring and fine-tuning SSIS packages, SSRS reports and T-SQL queries using SQL profilier monitoring tool. Proficient in Data warehousing and SSAS skills: MDDB/MDX, KPIs, Calculated Members, OLTP, OLAP (MOLAP, HOLAP, and ROLAP), Relational and Dimensional Modeling skills (star schema and snowflake schema). Experienced in working with Iterative Agile Programming Methodologies, Waterfall methodologies, Scrum and Test-driven development (TDD). TECHNICAL SKILLS RDBM/Databases:  MSSQL Server 2000/ 20 /2017 , MS Access 97/2000/2003/2007 , MYSQL. Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i Programming Languages:  T-SQL, PL/SQL, Dynamic SQL, MDX, XML, HTML, DHTML, Shell Scripting, Visual Basic 6.0 Data Modeling:  MS Visio, Fact & Dimensions tables, Physical & Logical data modeling, Star & Snowflake schema Relational, Dimensional and multidimensional modeling and De-Normalization Techniques, MS- Access. ETL-Tools:  SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) BI Tools:  SQL, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS 2005/20 ), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS 2005/2008/2012 ) SQL Server Analytical Services (SSAS 2005/2008/2012 ), Agile Methodology, Power BI Visual Studio, BIDS. Tools: /Database Utilities SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Enterprise Manager, SQL Server Profiler, Teradata, Import & Export Wizard, Visual Studio .Net, Microsoft Management Console, Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS), Toad, IIS 6.0/7.0, Business Objects, Crystal Reports 9.0, Web Services, XML, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, Clear Case, Clear Quest, Visual Source Safe 6.0/2005, Visual Studio Team Foundation Server (TFS). PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Chicago, IL SQL-BI developer Responsibilities: Created complex stored procedures to perform various tasks including, but not limited to: index maintenance, data profiling, metadata searches, and loading of the data mart. Worked on ECPS(Engineering Change Proposal) given by the government to Maintain Their Website MCRISS(MARINE CORPS RECRUITING INFORMATION SUPPORT SYSTEM). Involved in analyzing and designing disaster recovery / replication strategies with business managers to meet the business requirements. Conceptualized and Designed Logical and Physical Data Models using Erwin. Worked in designing data flow model fromCOSMOSsystem to Tabular model. Created Complex ETL Packages using SSIS which upsets data from staging table to database tables. Created logging, custom logging and error handling SSIS packages. Onboarded several applications & services in PPE, Production,Azurecloud environments. sub reports and formulas with complex logic using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Created and Executed Stored Procedures and Complex Queries for Reports. Deep analytics and understanding of Big Data and algorithms usingHadoopeco system, NoSQL. Modified the existing SSIS Packages to import and export data from Excel Spreadsheets, Text files and CSV files according to the requirement specifications. Responsible for writingT-SQLqueries, Stored Procedures and user-defined functions for handling the business requirements. Developing web applications where the price calculation and comparison of various cloud services like Azure andAWSare done. Wrote complexT-SQLqueries and stored procedures for the building reports in SSRS. DevelopedTabular, drill down, parameterized, cascaded and sub-reports using SSRS. Create Stored Procedures in EDIS to move tables from SQL Server,Teradatato Google BigQuery. Created aggregations, partitions, KPI's and perspectives for a cube as per business requirements. Created roles using SSAS to restrict cube properties. Created DB Replicator tool to pull data fromCOSMOSto Staging DB. Having overview knowledge of Big Data. Undergone the basic awareness training ofHadoop. Developed various types of Workflows usingVisualstudio2010 Sequential Workflows. Build the dashboards in power bi desktop and share it into azurecloudvia Data management Gateway. Used Microsoft Power BI Query to extract data from external sources and modify data to certain format as required in Excel and created SSIS packages to load excel sheets from PC to database Involved in thedatabasequeriesand stored procedures and SSIS package development. Created Calculated Columns and Measures in Power BI and Excel depending on the requirement using DAX queries. Experience to fine tuning thedatabase queriesand creating indexes on tables. Worked on both live and import data to Power BI for creating reports. Expertise in publishing Power bI reports of dashboards in Power BI server and scheduling the dataset to refresh for live data in Power bi server. Created action filters, parameters and calculated sets for preparing dashboards and worksheets. Administered Power BI Create, customize & share interactive web dashboards in minutes with simple drag & drop. Manage Data pipelines onAWS(amazon cloud). Involved in gathering client requirement and developed Power BI reports based on user defined ad hoc user Interface for end users. Participated in GAT(Government Acceptance Test) meeting where the government Test our code Environment: Microsoft PowerBI, Microsoft SQL Server 22016, COSMOS, Hadoop, Server Integration Services 2012, SQL server Reporting Service 2012, Server Analysis Services 2012, AWS, C#, XML, GitHub, Excel, SSDT, Azure, Windows Server, RDBMS, Windows XP, PL/SQL, Microsoft VSTS 2012, Windows7,10. Confidential, Detroit, MI BI Developer Responsibilities: Imported data from SQL Server DB, Azure SQL DB to Power BI to generate reports Build dashboard using parameters sets groups and calculations. Involved in creating a dual axis bar chart with multiple measures. Design of Alteryx workflow containing Coupa data to load into PowerBI for Procurement department, which TEMPhas provided increased spend visibility and reporting to the team Analyzed the tweets data using hadoop extracted it and formed the wordcloudof the same using Tableau. Development of of new monthly reporting due to additional data and capabilities from utilizing Alteryx. Furthering knowledge in Alteryx and PowerBI to analyze data further and provide visualization of trends to clients and team. Created Dax Queries to generated computed columns in Power BI. Blended data from multiple databases into one report by selecting primary keys from each Database for data validation. Used Power BI, Power Pivot to develop data analysis prototype, and used Power View and Power Map to visualize reports. Written scope scripts usingC#inCOSMOSto implement data warehouses Expertise in migrating BI applications to AWS/AzurePlatforms. Having overview knowledge of Big Data. Undergone the basic awareness training ofHadoop. Identified the factors involving the performance of the reports and coordinated in creation of indexes statistics to improve the query turnaround time efficiently. Published Power BI Reports in the required originations and Made Power BI Dashboards available in Web clients and mobile apps Used SSIS to create ETL packages to Validate, Extract, Transform and Load data to Data Warehouse and Data Mart Databases. Used ETL to implement the Slowly Changing Transformation, to maintain Historical Data in Data warehouse. Explore data in a Variety of ways and across multiple visualizations using Power BI Used Power BI Gateways to keep the dashboards and reports up to date. Installed and Configured Enterprise Gateway and Personal Gateway in Power BI Services. Created Ad-hoc reports with complexT-SQLqueries based on business requirement Created interactive dashboards, various Power BI visualizations by connecting to different sources and datasets. Using Power BI Connect live to Analysis Services models for both Tabular and Multidimensional cubes and involved data migration from oracle to HDFS. Optimizing existing analytics solutions utilizingTeradata, MSBI(SSAS, SSRS) for optimal performance. Wrote and modified various Stored Procedures used in the application using T-SQL. Schedule and maintain packages by daily weekly and monthly in SQL Server Agent. Maintained version control and was assigned tasks using Team Foundation Server (TFS) and documented the entire application Perform quality assurance checks and update databases to ensure data integrity. WriteT-SQLstatements for retrieval of data and Involved in performance tuning ofT-SQL queries and Stored Procedures. Performance optimization of the data warehouse by identifying and assisting in correcting EDW/BI performance bottlenecks and debug database applications Environment: MS SQL Server 2014, SSIS/SSAS/SSRS, Power BI, COSMOS, C#, AWS, ETL, T-SQL, Visual Studio 2015, SQL Server Profiler, Erwin Data Modeler 7.2, Azure, Dashboard, SQL Server Management Studio, Hadoop, SQL Server Data Tools (SSDT). Confidential, Indianapolis, IN SQL BI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in DataMart planning meeting with Project Manager, Business Analyst and Team members to analyze the business requirements and outlined the proposed solutions. Developed stored procedures for performing various tasks on databases. Created Custom Web parts inVisualStudio2005 using C# language. Implemented execution plan, indexes and dynamic SQL to optimize queries such as stored procedures and UDFs. Implemented error handling in procedures utilizing try-catch block, and raiserror. Created various data connections from data source to SSRS for report and dashboard development. Created parameterized reports, drill down reports & summary reports by utilizing SSRS. Created document map for easy navigation to the particular section of the SSRS report. Scheduled reports execution on daily basis in order to support the incremental load of the databases in SSRS. Developed best suitable user interface for management dashboards with Power Pivot. Environment: SQL Server 2012, TSQL, SSDT, SSIS, SSRS, C#, Erwin, CSS, MS Excel, Power BI, TFS 