SUMMARY An adaptable and results - oriented Data Warehouse and ETL professional with over 7.5 years of experience as lead data architect, implementing and developing Business Intelligence, Data Management, Data Integration solutions and Implementation of Enterprise Business Intelligence applications. 5+ years of Informatica product suite experience in installation, design, development and administration of data integration solutions, including Informatica designer components, Source analyzer, Warehouse designer, Transformation developer, Mapplet and Mapping Designer and power exchange loading techniques. 2 years of Teradata experience in development using MLoad, TPT and BTeq to design and develop dataflow paths for loading transforming and maintaining datawarehouse, performance fine tuning of user queries using EXPLAIN PLAN, Collect Statistics and SQL trace. Experience in ETL design involving multiple sources, staging and data warehouse loading Experience in data profiling, data quality analysis and data definition rules for data cleansing Expert skills in PLSQL/SQL queries using complex SQL features such as correlated subqueries, hierarchical queries, analytical queries Strong understanding of datawarehouse design approaches including dimensional modeling, Kimball approach, Denormalization techniques Developed data quality goals, metrics and key performance indicators. Experience in creating UNIX shell and batch scripts to automate processes Expertise in documentation of Business requirements and ETL design Proficient in post production support, implementation of enhancements Experience in Agile, waterfall methodologies and usage of Kanban boards Used JIRA for project task and issue tracking. Knowledge on Cloud Strategies based on AWS (Amazon Web Services); technical knowledge on EC2, IAM, S3, VPC. Microsoft Azure Cloud: Experience in building Resource groups & dashboard. Experience in hosting an Azure SQL server/database & working with the data integration model (Data Factory). TECHNICAL SKILLS ETL Tools: Informatica Power Center 10, 9.5/9.1/8.6/8.5/8.1 (Designer, Workflow Manager, Workflow Monitor, Repository manager), MDM, IBM Data Stage Databases: Teradata 15.0, DB2 v8.1/8.7, Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, MS SQL Server 2017/2008/2005 , MySQL Data Modeling: Erwin, MS Visio OLAP Tools: Microstrategy 8/9x Database Tools: Toad, SQL Developer, Squirrel, Teradata SQL Assistant Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell scripting, C, C++, C# Other Tools: Teradata OLEDB Access Module, JIRA/Kanban Board, HP Service Center, HP Service Manager and Service Now ticketing tools Domain: Retail, Finance & Insurance Cloud technologies: AWS, Microsoft Azure PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Long Beach, CA Senior Technical Lead / Architect / Developer Responsibilities: Setup Microsoft Azure Environment to extract the source data files & place it in Azure Blob. Created resource groups in the Azure dashboard. Created DDL’s for the DB tables, indexes and used them according to the new business requirement. Performed detail data analysis of both data elements requested by the business and data source and documenting data source definition, source-to-target mapping and logical structures for the data warehouse/data mart. Created complex mappings through Azure Data factory & loaded them into the Azure SQL Server database. Deloped Error Handling Strategy in Azure SQL database. Perform analysis on the XML files Responsible for Unit testing, System testing and Integration testing of mappings. Involved in Code deployments - DEV-QA and QA-PROD. Developed data quality goals, metrics and key performance indicators. Environment: Microsoft Azure Cloud, Azure SQL Server, Azure Blob,Azure Data Factory,Toad. Confidential, Burbank, CA Senior Technical Lead / Developer Responsibilities: Developed UNIX shell scripts for flat file pre-processing tasks and transferring the files to ETL server. Created DDL’s for the DB tables, views and used them according to the new business requirement. Performed detail data analysis of both data elements requested by the business and data source and documenting data source definition, source-to-target mapping, and logical structures for the data warehouse/data mart. Created complex mappings in Power Center Designer using Expression, Sequence Generator, Update Strategy, Joiner and Stored procedure, SQL transformation, Router, Connected & Unconnected lookups, Union, Expression and Aggregator transformations. Developed, tested, executed and utilized DBMS and ETL tool for for structured and unstructured content. Developed and implemented data strategy for Oracle and MS SQL. Worked on PL/SQL development. Developed Re-Usable Transformations, Functions and Mapplets. Developed data quality goals, metrics and key performance indicators. Responsible for Unit testing, System testing and Integration testing of mappings and workflows. Involved in Code deployments - DEV-QA and QA-PROD. Environment: ETL Informatica Power Center 10.1, MDM, IBM DB2 10, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2017 PL/SQL, Erwin, SQL/T-SQL, MS Visio, Squirrel, Toad, Microstrategy 9x, Service Manager ticketing tool,Unix, Windows. Confidential, Dallas Senior Developer Responsibilities: Architected and developed Fast Load and MLoad scripts, developed BTEQ scripts to process the data in staging. Developed, tested, executed and utilized DBMS and ETL tool for for structured and unstructured content. Used hybrid cloud to merges the benefits of both the private cloud and the public cloud. Worked with Error handling by using Error Tables and Unique Violation tables. Implemented slowly changing dimension methodology to keep track of historical data. Solved Various Defects in set of scripts which executed the Teradata BTEQ, MLOAD utilities and Unix Shell scripts. Created automated platform for Referential Integrity checks, data validation and sanity check. Built quarantine logics for Data quality checks, goals, metrics and key performance indicators. Involved in requirement Gap Analysis and data profiling. Involved in Code migration- DEV-QA and QA-PROD. Environment: Teradata 15.0, Teradata OLEDB Access Module, Informatica, JIIRA/Kanban Board, MDM, IBM DB2 8.7, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2017 PL/SQL, Erwin, SQL/T-SQL, MS Visio, Squirrel, Toad, Microstrategy 9x, Service Manager ticketing tool,Unix, Windows. Confidential  Senior ETL developer Responsibilities: Prepared project estimations and presented to Solution architects/BSA/Managers to get an approval. Developed, tested, executed and utilized DBMS and ETL tool for for structured and unstructured content. Developed of data quality goals, metrics and key performance indicators. Created and implemented ER model. Designed Ralph Kimball dimension model for reporting system. Created DDL’s for the DB tables, views and using them according to the new business requirement. Designed complex business logics using informatica mappings/ Shell scripting/PL SQL. Performed data validation testing writing SQL queries. Wrote complex queries to compare the counts and data from source to target. Involved in Code migration- DEV-QA and QA-PROD. Environment: ETL Informatica Power Center 9.1, MDM, IBM DB2 8.7, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2017 PL/SQL, Erwin, SQL/T-SQL, MS Visio, Squirrel, Toad, Microstrategy 9x, Service Manager ticketing tool, Unix, Windows. Confidential ETL Developer Responsibilities: Involved in preparing time estimations and source system analysis. Developed, tested, executed and utilized DBMS and ETL tool for for structured and unstructured content. Developed of data quality goals, metrics and key performance indicators. Designed several mappings to extract the data from Flat files and Relational Sources. Tuned Source System and Target System based on performance details, when source and target were optimized, sessions were run again to determine the impact of changes. Developed and documented data Mappings/Transformations and Informatica sessions. Created Sessions, Reusable Worklets and workflow in Workflow Manager and scheduled the workflow at specified frequency. Involved in writing Shell scripts, SQL, Procedures and functions required to extract, transform and load data to the data warehouse. Involved in quality assurance of data and automation of processes. Performed UAT and Regression Testing. Created mapping parameters and variables to reuse the mapping for different subject areas. Involved in Code migration- DEV-QA and QA-PROD. Environment: ETL Informatica Power Center 9.1, MDM, IBM DB2 8.7, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2017 PL/SQL, Erwin, SQL/T-SQL, MS Visio, Squirrel, Toad, Microstrategy 9x, Service Manager ticketing tool,Unix, Windows. Confidential ETL Developer Responsibilities: Developed UNIX shell scripts for flat file pre-processing tasks and transferring the files to ETL server. Created DDL’s for the DB tables, views and used them according to the new business requirement. Performed detail data analysis of both data elements requested by the business and data source and documenting data source definition, source-to-target mapping, and logical structures for the data warehouse/data mart. Created complex mappings in Power Center Designer using Expression, Filter, Sequence Generator, Update Strategy, Joiner and Stored procedure, SQL transformation, Router, Connected & Unconnected lookups, Union, Expression and Aggregator transformations. Developed of data quality goals, metrics and key performance indicators. Performed ETL table/field mapping. Created tables to contain this mapping along with most transformations and custom JOIN statements. Created custom ETL tool used to import bug tracking data from old system to new. Developed Re-Usable Transformations, Functions and Mapplets. Responsible for Unit testing, System testing and Integration testing of mappings and workflows. Involved in Code migration- DEV-QA and QA-PROD. Environment: ETL Informatica Power Center 9.1, IBM DB2 8.7, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2017 PL/SQL, Erwin, SQL/T-SQL, MS Visio, Squirrel, Toad, Microstrategy 9x, Service Manager ticketing tool, Unix, Windows. Confidential ETL Developer Responsibilities: Analyzed existing system and developed design documentation on changes required. Performed detailed data analysis of both data elements requested by the business and data source and documented data source definition, source-to-target mapping, and logical structures for the data warehouse/data mart. Developed, tested, executed and utilized DBMS and ETL tool for for structured and unstructured content. Developed of data quality goals, metrics and key performance indicators. Created complex mappings in Power Center Designer using Expression, Filter, Sequence Generator, Update Strategy, Joiner and Stored procedure, SQL transformation, Router, Connected & Unconnected lookups, Union, Expression and Aggregator transformations. Extensively worked with both Connected and Unconnected Lookup Transformations. Responsible for Unit testing, System testing and Integration testing of mappings and workflows. Load balancing of ETL processes, database performance tuning and capacity monitoring. Involved in the development of various transformation to load the data in slowly changing dimensions. Developed Test Cases and SQL Queries to perform various Validations. Developed Slowly Changing Dimension for Type 1, Type 2 SCD. Environment: ETL Informatica Power Center 9.1, IBM DB2 8.7, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2017 PL/SQL, Erwin, SQL/T-SQL, MS Visio, Squirrel, Toad, Microstrategy 9x, Service Manager ticketing tool, Unix, Windows. Confidential ETL Production Support Responsibilities: Responsible for 24 x 7 production system support, including off hours and weekend 'on call' production support responsibilities Review Design for all the new development efforts and provide recommendation or changes if needed Developed ETL utilities which replace manual tasks. Daily spot-check of system health. Manage and own Change management process. Debug, troubleshoot, root cause analysis and resolve issues within SLA. Manage and own application Bugs and incident life cycle and drive those to permanent resolutions, implement preventive measures to avoid repetitive issues. Follow up with third party vendors for issue resolution and prevention. Perform weekly incident/bug review meetings with the onsite leads and Management. Provide valuable inputs and system knowledge to development team to achieve better results in project initiatives. Environment: ETL Informatica Power Center 9.1, IBM DB2 8.7, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2017 PL/SQL, Erwin, SQL/T-SQL, MS Visio, Squirrel, Toad, Microstrategy 9x, Service Manager ticketing tool,Unix, Windows. 