PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY: 8+years of experience as Data Analyst, Business Systems Analyst, Data Modeler and Tableau Developer in Software Design, Development, Integration, Implementation and Maintenance of Data Warehousing and Database applicationsin Healthcare, Finance, Automobile and Wholesaleindustries. 4+ years of extensive Tableau Experience using Tableau 9.x/8.x/7.x as a Developer and Analyst In - depth knowledge on Tableau Desktop, Tableau Reader, Tableau Server, Tableau Online&Tableau Public. Highly proficient inAgile, Test Driven, Iterative,Scrum and WaterfallSoftware Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Organized numerous Joint Application developments (JAD), Joint Requirement Planning sessions (JRP),Interviews, workshops and Requirement Elicitation sessions with end-user/clients/stake holders, Subject Matter Experts and the technology group. Proficient in creating Use Cases, Data Flow Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams, State Transition Diagrams, ER Diagrams etc. Strong understanding ofData Warehouseconcepts, Star Schema, Snowflake Schema, Business Process Analysis, Physical andLogical data modeling. Hands on experience inpublishing of various kinds of interactive dashboards, and workbooks from Tableau Desktop to Tableau Servers. Highly proficient in design and development ofprototype reports/ dashboards in Tableau during the requirement gathering phase to visualize the reports and clarify requirements. Expertise in creating filters, quick filters, data source filters, global filters, context filters, user filters, actions and creating Dashboards for key performance indicators. Expert in creatingQuick Table Calculations, Static and Dynamic sets,Parameters and Level of Detailusing advanced logical and statistical functionsin Tableau Desktop. Expertise in URL Actions, passing parameters from Tableau to web applications. Extensive experience in usingTableau (Desktop/ Server), Teradata, Informatica Power Center, Business ObjectsEnterprise,Java Script API, SQL Server, Oracle11g. Experience in Normalization and De-Normalization techniques for both OLTP and OLAP systems. Expertise in performance tuning of loading the OLTPTransactions and integration of the data into DataWarehouse(EDW)and Data Marts. Experience in designing the data conversion strategy, development of data mappings and the design of Extraction, Transformation and Load (ETL) routines for migrating data from non-relational or source relational to target relational. Expertise in writing SQL Queries, Dynamic-queries, and complex joins for generating Complex Stored Procedures, User-defined Functions, Views, Cursors and Triggers. Good working knowledge on Asp.Net Web application and integration with Tableau 7.x, 8.x, QlikView 10 SR x, 11 SR x Hands on experience in project life cycle management using Agile Rally, Clear Quest, HP ALM, TFS, Share Point and code repository maintenance using source controls SVN, Kiln. Extensively involved inReverse-Engineeringand Business Rules Extraction, Expert inproject planning,strategic planning,systems analysisandtroubleshooting,qualitycontrol, forecasting, scheduling, planningandtracking of results. Flexible, enthusiastic and project oriented team player with excellent communication skills with leadership abilities to develop creative solution for challenging requirement of client. TECHNICAL SKILLS: BI Tools: Tableau( Desktop/Server/Mobile/Public), Crystal Reports XI, XCelsius, SSRS, QlikView ETL Tools: Informatica, Data Stage, SSIS Databases: SQL Server, Oracle, MS-Access, DB2, Teradata, Oracle. Database tools: SQL Enterprise Manager, TOAD, Teradata SQL Assistant Applications: Microsoft Office, ProClarity, AdobePhotoshop7, Adobe Illustrator, MS VisioScripting Languages:C, C++, HTML, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, VB, CSS, JavaScript Data Modeling Tools: Power Designer, Erwin, ER Studio, MS Visio. Design/Version Control: UML, Rational rose Operating Systems: Windows Server 2000/2003/2008, Windows 98/2000/XP/VISTA/7 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, NYC, NY  Sr. Tableau Developer Responsibilities: Gathered Business Requirements, Interacted with the Users. Worked with business partners and Server Side BI engineers to rigorously define, implement and further develop metrics and key performance indicators. Have extensively worked in AGILE environment by participating in daily stand up meetings, and Sprint planning at the end of every Sprint. Wrote custom SQL queries to optimize the extracts, and heavily relied on data blending as the end workbooks ultimately required multiple fields from different data sources. Developed dashboards analyzing call handing forecasting, call rate, call waiting time, and call forward, average call time using Tableau BI. Generated data extracts in Tableau by connecting to the view using Tableau MySQL connector. Configured data extraction and scheduled refreshes both incremental and complete refresh depending on the data to improve performance of Tableau reports. Built dashboards with floating objects and capitalizing the various dashboard actions features like URL, images, web integrations. Structured the dashboard with a consistent layout with visuals chart at the top and corresponding crosstab data and the bottom. Customized the tooltips and labels, to user understandable format, the numerical measure was changed to its appropriate formats. Involved in major integration with web applications using JavaScript API, REST API. Designed functionality toConsolidates structures into a single tree hierarchy filter. Developed filter Functionality which allows Users to apply filter selections at one time. Provided work flow process which exports dashboards in a ready to present format. Created Tableau Server landing page to give user quick access to their most recently accessed reports. Connected to Tableau Postgre SQL database to create customized interface for Tableau workbooks to provide native style navigation. Implemented Tableau Out Of Box feature functionalities for the web frame work. Created Warm Caching for the Tableau Dashboards after the integration done to web application. Worked on the new concepts like Churn Mechanism and formatted commentary on a Tableau dashboard. Environment: Tableau(Desktop/Server), Oracle, MySQL, SQL Developer, Waterfall Methodology, Rally, Asp.Net, JavaScript, SVN Confidential, Raleigh, NC Sr. Tableau Developer Responsibilities: Creating and modifying Business Intelligence analytical reports using Tableau. Major integration with web applications using JavaScript API, Asp.Net and IIS Server. Gathered Business Requirements, Interacted with the Users, Project Manager and SMEs to get a better understanding of the Business Processes. Involved in creating complex Stored Procedures, triggers, cursors, tables, and views and other SQL joins and statements for applications. Core member for integration of Tableau Reports with Asp.Net web application and usage of JavaScript API for performance improvement. Extensive use of Rally software tool to manage agile development, creation of user stories, estimates and updates. Viewing the burn down charts and other reports, updating the team in meetings. Prepared project reports for management and assisted the project manager in the development of weekly and monthly status reports, policies and procedures. Extensively used Visio to create Use Cases Diagrams, Activity Diagrams. Developing and maintaining high level overview of the project and design flows using MS Visio. Worked on Business Intelligence standardization to create database layers with user-friendly views in Oracle that can be used for development of various Tableau reports/ dashboards. Analyzed dimensional and fact tables in a campaign data mart that details Inclusion, exclusion and Segmentation criteria, Offer assignment and campaign response by campaign. Created side by side bars, Scatter Plots, Stacked Bars, Heat Maps, Filled Maps and Symbol Maps according to deliverable specifications. Effectively used data blending feature in tableau to connect different databases like Oracle, MS SQL Server. Worked on drill through reports by creating HTML s. Designed business intelligence dashboard using Tableau Desktop and publishing the same on Tableau server, allowing executive management to view current and past performance sales trends at various geographic locations. Actively involved in testing new/upgraded features like new Visualizations, Forecasting, Data Blending, Parallelized Dashboard, Hyperlink Objects, Color-coded tabs etc. in Tableau 8 desktop/Server. Worked on Performance tuning of report with huge queries using concurrent query execution for better performance of report. Usage of Context, SQL filters to improve performance and different date filters to show the details for different quarters and years. Actively tracking schedule, clear and crisp communications with key resources, stakeholders and SMEs to keep everyone involved in the project on the same page, milestone tracking and avoiding scope creep issues. Environment: Tableau 8.2/8.1,8.0,7.0, Tableau Server 7.0/8.0, Oracle 10g, SQL Developer, Agile-Scrum, Rally, Asp.Net, JavaScript, SVN Confidential, New York City, NY Sr. Tableau Developer Responsibilities: Identifying and gathering user requirements and business requirements from different groups, end users for developing reports Designed and developed Tableau Dashboards for critical Projects, i.e. CEO Scorecard & OBIEE to Tableau Reports Conversion. Particularly CEO scorecard, for which the scope of Workbook included 10+ dashboards. Performing yearly analysis and business risks using different line charts. Analyzing the future trends and provide business ideas to manage wealth, investments. Designed Ad-Hoc reports across various verticals as per the Business Users requirements. e.g.: Bookings, Sales, Quoting, Cases, and Opportunities. Creation of ER diagrams and database design for the project. Handled Tableau admin activities granting access, managing extracts and Installations. Creation of tableau users and testing with different security levels for web authorization and authentication. Exploring tableau 8.0 features for web editing and authoring, filters and server monitoring. Have extensively used Tableau functions like Data Blending, Custom SQL, Interactivity, and Chart types, Navigation, Images and Parameters in this process. Have used Custom SQL, Aggregate and Analytical functions to extract the required Contracts/Opportunities data for reports and dashboard development. Generated tableau dashboards for sales with forecast and lines. Build and publish Tableau reports utilizing Data Blending, multi-level hierarchy, Table Calculations, Parameters, Graphs and Actions. Tableau advanced charts using geo maps, Gantt charts, Pareto charts, scattered plots for providing multidimensional views. Key integration with web applications and resolving ticketing server issues with IIS. Smoke testing for all the business scenarios in Dev and Pre Production servers. Integration of tableau reports with web application and viewing reports online. Created a POC project to decide Tableau or QlikView for given requirement. Good working knowledge on QlikView 10 Desktop. Environment: Tableau Desktop 7, Tableau Server 7, Tableau Server 8, QlikView 10, Oracle 10g, SQL, Clear Quest (CQ), Kiln, Asp. Net, IIS Server Confidential, San Francisco, CA Tableau Developer Responsibilities: Oversee the performance of Design to develop technical solutions from Analysis documents. Gathered Business Requirements, Interacted with the Users, Project Manager and SMEs to get a better understanding of the Business Processes. Prepared BI Interactive Dashboards using calculations, parameters inTableau. Develop, organize, manage and maintain graph, table, slide and document templates that will allow for efficient creation of reports. Deep experience with the design and development ofTableauvisualization solutions. Responsible for creating reports using Tableau desktop and publishing reports to Tableau server Configured different data sources using Tableau Desktop Created best visualizations reports as per the business requirements using Tableau desktop professional edition. Blended data using multiple data sources (primary and secondary). Expertise in Tableau Actions used to navigate between sheets or URLs, highlight or filter. Experience with creation of users, groups, projects, workbooks and the appropriate permission sets for Tableau server logons and security checks. Extensive experience on creating trend reports including forecast and trend lines. Configured incremental data refresh for the data sources. Good working knowledge on Tableau administration for creating users, groups, sites and access control. Configured AD security using tableau server. Responsible for authorizing the users based on their privileges. Involved in migration activities related to Tableau across the environments. Develop, organize, manage and maintain graph, table, slide and document templates that will allow for efficient creation of reports. Designed filters, power prompts, and complex financial calculations for various analytical reports. Implemented security in reports according to employee groups and roles according to the requirement and was involved in deployment process. Expertise in connecting to Oracle and SQL databases and troubleshooting. Environment: Tableau Desktop/Tableau server, TabCMD, SQL developer, SQL 2008, Oracle 10g, Microsoft Excel 2007, MS Access, Windows 2007 server, java 1.5 platform, Microsoft office 2007 Confidential, Minneapolis, MN Data Analyst Responsibilities: Analyzed the large sets of data using various techniques such as quantitative analysis, advanced analytics and statistical modeling to find solutions Developed predictive statistical models using statistical analysis and other predictive modeling techniques. Build and analyze queries from databases using SQL Working with client on customer data by relating from multiple internal and external sources into a central consolidated company-wide customer database Daily movement of users and handling cases, analysis and Ad hoc Reporting Provide input to improve customerdataprocessing Participate in weekly staff meetings and collaborate with various teams to develop and support ongoing analyses Conductdataaccuracy analysis and support stakeholders for decision-making Analyzing data using advance Excel functions such as Pivot Table, Charts, Graphs and Macros Handled the company’s day-to-day reporting anddataaccess needs Developed and implemented a business intelligence strategy that ensures the systemdatais secure, integrated and accessible to staff Worked across departments to identify and understand key business questions, and standardize key metrics and measures Implemented Complex business logic with User-Defined-Functions, Index, Views and also created User Defined Data type, Clustered & Non-clustered Indexes Analysis, desi0gn and data modeling of Logical and Physical database using E-R diagrams Design/Build Extract Transform Load procedures in SQL Server 2005/2008/2008 R2 using DTS packages to import/export data feeds to/from data warehouse and claim systems Highly involved in creating, structuring, formatting using Report Designer and Report Builder Worked on querying data and creating on-demand reports using Report Builder in SSRS reports and send the reports via email Designed and created Report templates, bar graphs and pie charts based on the customer data Environment:SQL Server 2005/2008/2008 R2, MS Access, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint,R, SAS, Informatica ETL, VBScript, HTML, XML, Visio, ASP.NET, VB.NET, BIDS.   Confidential  .Net/SQL Developer Responsibilities: Single point of contact to the US team and has lead the project ensuring quality deliverables before deadlines Lead and managed a team of four, providing guidance on the requirements from the US counterparts and continuous communication with the team to foresee good output. Identifying bottlenecks and recommending solutions to address production issues. Design and develop web pages using Asp.Net, HTML, and CSS. Deployment of code to IIS server and testing in different servers such as Dev, Staging servers. Perform developer testing and identifying major defects. Loading XML data and exporting to excel options for different grid view data. Research leveraged technologies and implementation of additional components. Creation of database tables, complex stored procedures and performance enhancements. Coordination with SSRS team for building reports and integrating with the application. Created views to facilitate easy user interface implementation, and triggers on them to facilitate consistent data entry into the database. Coordinated post-implementation events such as testing and configured replication server. Performed extensive database activities such as data modeling, database design, data analysis, validation and Data migration (import & export/BCP) from Text to SQL Server. Environment: SQL Server 2000, SQL Server 2005, Import& Export Data,ER-Win, T-SQL, Excel, Access and Windows NT, SSRS, Microsoft Visual Studio 2008, Asp. Net, IIS Server, C#, Java Script.                        