SUMMARY 12 + years of IT experience with relational databases (SQL Server, SQLite, MySQL). 7+ years of experience in designing and developing software for Mobile and Web Applications using different technologiesin the Microsoft Technology Stack like .NET, Xamarin, Azure and C#, developed Restful Web Services with ASP.net MVC/Core and Azure App Service, worked with JSON/XML format and HTML, JavaScript, jQuery Experience in designing and implementing Mobile applications using the Windows Platform, from Windows Phone to Windows Universal Apps Experience in designing and implementing Mobile Cross - Platform App using Xamarin platform (X.iOS, X.Android, Forms) Experience leading and coaching teams from in several projects Certified Xamarin developer (Xamarin Forms, MVVM, iOS/Android, Mobile Cross-Platform, SQLite, Backgrounding,HockeyApp,Xamarin Test Cloud, UI Testing). Certified C# Developer MCPS Proficient with Visual Studio on Windows. Strong user interface design skills, usability analysis and experience with mobile navigation patterns. Experience in designing and implementing of Restful Web Services using Azure Services and Web API (.NET) Strong communication, interpersonal, collaboration and leadership skills TECHNICAL SKILLS Devices:  Windows Phone, iPhoneLanguages:  C#, VB.Net, XML/XAML, JQuery, AngularJs,HTML, UML GUI Tools: Xamarin Studio, Source Tree, Visual Studio, Android Studio, XCode Version Control Tools:  Git, VSTS, TFS, Bitbucket Documentation and Design Tools: JIRA Software, Mantis DBMS: SQL Server, SQLAzure, Cosmos DB Operating Systems:  Windows, MacOS, some Linux Mobile API:  Azure Push, Bluemix, Facebook SDK, SAP Business One SDK. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Detroit MI Sr. Xamarin Cross-Platform Developer Environment: C#, .NET, Xamarin.Forms, Xamarin.iOS, Xamarin.Android, Visual Studio, Xamarin Studio, Xamarin.Insights, Xamarin.UITest, SQlite.NET, Xamarin Facebook SDK, Xamarin Mobile (Camera and Location), Git, Source tree, Scrum, XCode, Restful Web Services, HTTPS, JSON. Responsibilities: Confidential App published to Google and Apple stores. Design .Net Standard (PCLs) components according to a more modern and SOLID coding style, including focused class decoupled design, interfaces abstractions, and separation between the UI (view), business logic (view model) and data (model) applying the MVVMArchitecture. Worked with near-shore developers to improve the programming efficiency applying the best practices in coding style, centralization of logic, and maintainability. Design and implement a reusable client proxy component forconsuming the information from the Restful API using ModernHTTPClient component Implementation of Xamarin Mobile component for device location. Implementation of Xamarin Social component for accessing to Facebook, Twitter and Instagram Autantication API. Implement the Xamarin Insight crash reports, users, audience and events for monitoring the app across App Store and Google Play. Performed all unit testing, debugging and post-release support using Xamarin Test Cloud with different iOS/Android versions and devices. Create the reusable common user interface using Xamarin.Forms elements cross-platform apps. Distributed version control with Git. Confidential, Houston Texas VS.Net and Xamarin Cross-Platform Developer C# Environment: C#, Xamarin.Forms, Xamarin.iOS, Xamarin.Android, Visual Studio 2017, MVC, JIRA Software, JSON, Services Web RESTful. Responsibilities: Generate the local environment for each project to execute the applications to make sure the functionality is working properly. Otherwise, if there is any incident during the execution, I need to do the diagnostic and send the fix to owner’s product to resolve the issue. Testing the app in the devices using Postman app setting the End points and all parameters such as header, body token key and X-IBM-ID from Bluemixto run the APIs and gather the data. Support in background data with Azure using the Application Insights to monitor the runtime showing metrics and alerts to detect any incidentand offer a Diagnostic. Support + Troubleshooting to database team to improve the execution of the queries, increasing the performance to return the data faster and reducing the time. Coaching for the other member’s team in advanced tasks resolution New Features and enhancement request using JIRA Software Bug tracking using Bitbucket Using Application Insights in Azure to no the failure in the applications including web and mobile. Developing an interface to execute some scripts using a UI to assign the responsibility to other support team. Confidential, Battle Creek, MI Cross-Platform Xamarin Developer Environment: C#, Xamarin.Forms, Xamarin. IOS, Xamarin.Android, Xamarin Studio, Xamarin.Insights, Xamarin.UITest, JSON format, ModernHttpClient. Maps API, Mac OS X Responsibilities: Developed the Unit Tests Interfaces using Xamarin.UITest and REPL tool. Performed all unit testing, debugging and post-release support using Xamarin Test Cloud with different iOS/Android OS versions and devices. Designed of libraries focused on class design, interaction through interfaces, and separation between the UI (view), business logic (view model) and data (model). Worked with overseas developers to improve programming efficiency, coding style, centralization of logic, and maintainability. Designed and implemented the Inspection Module across platform iOS and Android. Created the reusable PCL user interface using Xamarin Forms elements. Created the reusable code cross platform by implementing design patterns for multimedia components such as photos, PDF documents and files. Integration of the proxy client responsible for pull and push data to the data center using ModernHttpClient component. Optimization of LINQ usage and SQL direct sentences against SQLite for best performance across platform. Supported in the integration of Maps API for location module. Created the user interfaces for iOS/Android using Xamarin Studio and Xcode. Designed of the user interface experience for iOS and Android using their specific platform navigation pattern. Designing and planning specialist: AGILE software development (SDLC), MVC, MVVM, and design patterns. Bug tracking using JIRA. Leveraged LINQ to improve efficiency of queries throughout the code base. Improved app performance by using Cell Reuse Pattern, Dispose Pattern, Async/Await, Weak References and iOS instruments tools. Confidential Cross-Platform Xamarin Developer Environment: C#, Xamarin.iOS, Xamarin.Android, Xamarin Studio, Mac the Capitan OS, Xamarin.Insights, Xamarin.UITest,SQlite.NET, XCalendar component, Industrial Theme Component, Git, Source tree, Asana, SCRUM, XCode. Responsibilities: Design of the user interface experience for iOS and Android using their specific platform navigation pattern. Create the re-usable code across platform implementing design patterns as Service Locator, IoC and Dependency Injection, Singleton and Factory. Implement the Xamarin Insight crash reports, users, audience and events for monitoring the app across App Store and Google Play. Design the relational model of the database and mapping them into C# classes. Design and implement the pool connections for accessing to the database using SQLite.NET Optimization of LINQ usage and SQL direct sentences against SQLite for best performance across platform. Design and implementation of the PCL for handling database connections across platform using SQLite.NET Create the PCL for accessing the IO File System across platform to make the backups of the database and restore. Create the user interfaces for iOS using Xamarin Studio and Xcode, and Xamarin Studio for Android layouts. Create custom views in order to reuse them across the app. Optimization of LINQ usage and SQL direct sentences against SQLite for best performance Design and implementation of the PCL for handling database connections using SQLite.NET Develop the Unit Tests using Xamarin.UITest and REPL tool. Performed all unit testing, debugging and post-release support. Implement the Long-Running Tasks BackgroundingiOS design for getting information of the steps even if the app is not in the foreground. Confidential Software Developer Environment: C#, VB.Net, ASP.net, Entity Framework, Team Foundation Server, Business Intelligence. Responsibilities: Develop the new enhancement in the virtual kiosk project, modifying the interface according to requirement. For instance, the users swipe their badge the IT support will get all the user information to has a session face to face. Verify the location and the time to show a greeting in the main screen. Support to HP people with an application developed in PHP to resolve some issues. Help to fix the performance in the databases with the migration to iCloud. Administrator of the Mapcel App teach and given support to the sellers to use the application through mobile. Upload and Download the information from provider's server. Develop a web application to show the information using reports showing tables and graphs and create a module to match the invoices from the bank against invoices of the company. Furthermore, using Job’s that are scheduled every day downloading the data from SAP. Create some macrosto do the process automatically. Confidential Software Developer Environment: VB.net, VBA (Macros - Excel), MySQL, Linux, PHP, ASP.net Responsibilities: Develop an application to manage the information from the HEB’ suppliers to comparing the orders buys with the invoices to detect difference in prices, quantity of products or percentage granted. Upload the information through bulk load into MySQL. o Process the file in the console’s Linux. o Download the files in csv format. Creation of Macro’s to give format, open the csv files in excel to show the data and prepare the document to begin to analyze. Develop a system to get the weight from a scale and show the specification of each product in a form, the source is stored in SAP data base. Print the information in labels with ZPL commands in zebra’s printers. Use the SDK including the integrity that is required to insert records in the database. Bug and tasks tracking using Visual Source Safe. Confidential Software Developer Environment: C#, SQL Server 2005, Visio, Microsoft Project, VSS. Responsibilities: Develop the new modules applying stages, business logic, data and presentation. Generate the branch and the scripts including all the objects in the database such as, table, queries, function, stored procedure so forth. Working in the developers’ team sharing the code and replicate the issues in order to fix it and publish in the Source Control with tan new version. Register the bug and tracking in Visual Source Safe. Confidential Programmer Environment: SQL Server 2005, Business Intelligence, Access. Responsibilities: Create package with SQL Server Integration Services Generate scripts to gather data using queries advanced to improve the performance. Develop the DTS to migrate the databases from Access to SQL Server.