SUMMARY Over 6+ years of experience in Oracle PL/SQL development and management skills with distinct phases of SDLC involving Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing and Deployment of business applications. Worked as a Business analyst and DBA requirements gathering, business analysis, testing, metrics and project coordination. CreatedTables, Views, Constraints, Index(B Tree, Bitmap and Function Based). Developed complex SSRS reports using multiple data providers, Global Variables, Expressions, user defined objects, aggregate aware objects, charts, and synchronized queries. Skillful hands on Performing operations usingoracle10g,11g and 12c and Can create, develop and maintainSQLprocesses for channel performance data warehousing. Good understanding and knowledge in Logical Database Modeling and Database design (Start Schema). Skilled with the SDLC phases of Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, testing and Support. DevelopedOraclePL/SQLcode using Packages, stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursors, Views and Materialized views as per the business requirement for enhancement or to resolve issues. CreatedPackagesandProceduresto automatically drop table indexes and create indexes for the tables. Worked extensively onRef Cursor, External TablesandCollections. Experience in oracle APEX applications and conducted performance tuning for PLSQL. Expertise inDynamic SQL, CollectionsandException handling. Knowledgeable in RDBMS and projects usingOracle,SQLServer,SQL, PL/SQLprogramming. Experience in Sybase SQL Anywhere and Sybase mobile technology. Skilled in applyingSQLconcepts like Normalization, Database design, Performance Analysis. knowledge of key Oracle performance related features such asQuery Optimizer, Execution PlansandIndexes. Developed reports using Spotfire Professional and published the same to Spotfire Server for Business Users use. Efficient with Waterfall and Agile methodologies and working on Jira. Proficient in Creating Package Configurations to deploy the packages through DEV, TEST and PROD Environments. Worked with the XML files. Good knowledge in LINUX, UNIX and Shell scripting. Expertise in Providing and making recommendations for physical database design, architecture, testing, performance tuning, and implementation ofOracleDB. Excellent in analytical, problem solving and communication skills with ability to be an TEMPeffective team member and has capability to work under severe time constraints. TECHNICAL SKILLS Databases: Oracle12c,11g, 10g, RAC (10g & 11g), SQL SERVER, EBS, SQL *PLUS. Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX, java(basics), Shell scripting Tools: SQL PLUS, Toad, NETMGR, EMS SQL Manager, Putty, PL/SQL Developer, SQL Developer Utilities: Expdp/Impdp, DEV, TEST and PROD, OEM, ASM, RMAN, TOAD, STATSPACK, AWR, AWR/ADDM, GITHUB PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Lonetree,CO Oracle pl/sql Developer Responsibilities: Created the databases and schema objects including tables, indexes and applied constraints, connected various applications to the database and written functions, stored procedures and triggers. Developed Custom Logging so user can know when a row is inserted in custom logging table by every SQL package dat executes. DataStage jobs using stage variables, Derivations, functions, Constraints, etc. Development of the databases using 11g & 12c. Implementation of 12c in the oracle label security and cloud control. Involved in integrating different Database Applications using Microsoft Visual Studio packages. Creating packages dat involves migration from legacy systems to centralized Database. Designed and tested packages to extract, transform and load data (ETL) using SSIS, designed packages which are utilized for tasks and transformations such as ExecuteSQLTask, Mapping the right and required data from source to destination, Data Flow Task, Data Conversion, For each Loop Container. Implementation of work on the weekly bases on the PL/SQL development of the required Schemas & Procedures. Develop the post - processor script in PERL for American Funds ingestion process to move the pdf files to the NAS mounted directory structure based on the config file format. Implemented using Forms, Reports, PL/SQL, Flexfields and Workflow. Customized and maintained Project Accounting (Project Costing and Billing). Used For-Each Loop Container, Script task, Expressions, ExecuteSQLtask, Send Mail task, Package Execution task to achieve business needs. Developed the UI using Java Servlets, Java script, HTML. Developed backend Java services to migrate data between Sybase to Oracle. Worked with various transformations in Informatica power center like Filter, Aggregator, Joiner, Rank, Router, Sorter, Source qualifier, and Update Strategy transformations. Running the AWR reports for the Database performance gathering and reporting. Create, manageSQLServer Databases. Designed elevated level ETL architecture for overall data transfer from the source server to the Enterprise Services Warehouse. Designed and developed ETL processes using Data Stage designer to load data fromoracle, MSSQL, Flat Files (Fixed Width) and XML files to staging database and from staging to the target Data Warehouse. Environment: s: EDW, Toad,AWR (OEM), Data conversion, XML, Shell scripting,PEARL, Data warehouse, ETL, ETL Mapping, SQL. Confidential, Houston, TX Oracle PL/SQL Developer Responsibilities: OracleApplications 11g Maintenance, Patching, Performance tunings Apps Development and Database Support & Maintenance OracleApps on AD utilities. Applied patches (One-off, Mini-patch, Rollup Patch, CPU) and performing AD activities and Trouble shooter several worker issues and used default files to reduce patch timelines. CreatedPL/SQL scriptsto extract the data from the operational database into simple flat text files usingUTL FILEpackage. Creation of database objects liketables, views, materialized views, procedures and packagesusing oracle tools likeToad, PL/SQL DeveloperandSQL* plus. Partitionedthe fact tables andmaterialized viewsto enhance the performance. Extensively usedbulk collectionin PL/SQL objects for improving the performing. Createdrecords, tables, collections(nested tables and arrays) for improving Query performance by reducingcontext switching. UsedPragma Autonomous Transactionto avoid mutating problem in database trigger. Extensively used the advanced features of PL/SQL likeRecords, Tables, Object typesandDynamic SQL. Has also Created the indexes on the columns based on the explain plan, TKPROF and analyzing the tables. Performance analysis of different database objects. Development of the front-end functionality. Create various Stored Procedures and Database triggers. Monitoring the Tablespaces Usage and Indexes usage regularly. Has been involved in the continuous enhancements and fixing of production problems. Storage management, sizing the database objects, monitoring Disk usage. Monitoring the Backup Status (Exports, Cold Backup, Hot Backup). Debugging the bugs in SQL using Toad and troubleshooting end user problems. Migrating data using Import and Export utilities. Creating RMAN backup, recovery catalog. Gathering Statistics by using Stats pack. Worked in creating System documentation such as Technical Specification, Unit Test Plan and System Flow. Automation of daily database backup task using windows task scheduler. Environment: OracleApplications 11i/R12,Oracle9i, 10g, 11g, RHEL 4.2, SQL, Windows 2003 with active directory, PL/SQL, OEM, TOAD, SQL Developer, SQL*Loader, NT, ASM. Confidential, Baltimore, MD  OraclePL/SQL developer Responsibilities: Worked on Data Extract Process which is done on demand as per the user requirements. Upon their specific request, data is retrieved from various systems usingSQL/PLSQL coding and delivered in their requested format. Actively involved in optimization and tuning ofSQLqueries through utilizing the explain plan to find out the problem area of the query. Used Temp Tables to reduce the number of rows for joins, to aggregate data from various sources for different reports. Developed java classes to analyze strings and invoke webservices. Created Indexes on tables for new database to faster retrieval of data for the Reports. Loading the data from UNIX server to external tables and managing the data as per the customer requirements. Created the database objects like tables, views, procedures, packages, triggers, materialized views usingOracletools likeSQL* Plus, Toad,OracleSQLDeveloper. Designed and implemented multiple new features in hotwire.com related to Hotel Room search and purchase usingAJAX,JQuery,Angular JS,CSS3andHTML5. Extensively involved in writingSQLqueries (Sub queries and Join conditions), PL/SQL programming. PerformedSQLtuning on complex queries using tools such as Explain Plan, TKPROF and DBMS Profiler. Involved in writing Bulk Collects, Cursors, Ref Cursors, and Exceptions within the various procedures. Support and modify existing code and Involved in migration of data from legacy application to Project View and involved in creation of Reporting DB from the Transaction DB and in creating UNIX shell Scripting. Environment: Oracle11g,SQLDeveloper, PL/SQL, TOAD, UNIX. Confidential, Chicago, IL  Oracle Database developer Responsibilities: OracleApplications 11i/R12 Maintenance, Patching, Performance tunings Apps Development and Database Support & Maintenance. OracleApps on AD utilities. Applied patches (One-off, Mini-patch, Rollup Patch, CPU) and performing AD activities and Trouble shooter several worker issues and used default files to reduce patch timelines. Developed java classes to analyze strings and invoke webservices. Performed Database Administration of all database objects includingtables, clusters, indexes, views, sequences packagesandprocedures. Implemented 11g and upgraded the existing database from Oracle 9i to Oracle 11g. Involved inLogical & Physical Database Layout Design. Set-up and Design of Backup and Recovery Strategy for various databases. Performance tuning of Oracle Databases and User applications. Good exposure of usingOracleperformance tools like AWR/ADDM, STATSPACK, explain plan, TKPROF, SQL Trace, ANALYZE Indexes OPatch. Performance analysis of different database objects. Development of the front-end functionality. Create various Stored Procedures and Database triggers. Monitoring the Tablespaces Usage and Indexes usage regularly. Storage management, sizing the database objects, monitoring Disk usage. Monitoring the Backup Status. (Exports, Cold Backup, Hot Backup). Debugging the bugs in SQL using toad and troubleshooting end user’s problems. Migrating data using Import and Export utilities. Loading data using SQLLDR from flat files. Confidential Jr Oracle PL/SQL Developer Responsibilities: Worked with front-end team to provide them with necessary data using stored procedures and packages. Created the database objects like Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, Functions, packages, triggers using tools like,SQLDeveloperandSQL*plus. Implementing Backups and Restoring when necessary. Responsible for data migration between systems on differentOracleversions. Worked on creating technical specification document. Involved in writing complex SQL statements. Developed SQL scripts for maintaining Administration tasks. Environment: s: Front-end development, SQL, SQL*plus, data migrating and Technical documenting. 