SUMMARY 7 Years of experience in Database Design, Programming, Development and Implementation of Client - Server Applications & Database systems using MS SQL 2012/2008R2/2008/2005 and Business Objects BO Crystal Enterprise 2013/2008. Experienced in Installing, Upgrading and Configuring of Microsoft SQL Server and Databases. Proficient in SQL Server and T-SQL (DDL and DML) in constructing Tables, Normalization techniques on database Tables. Well experience in Data Extraction, Transforming and Loading (ETL) using various tools such as SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Data Transformation Services (DTS). Used MS SQL Server 2012 SSIS to create SSIS tasks such as Conditional Split, Derived Column, whichwere used for Data Scrubbing, data validation checks during Staging and before loading teh data. Proficient in creating dynamic packages for Incremental Loads and Data Cleaning in Data Warehouse using SSIS. Designed complex SSAS solutions using multiple dimensions, perspectives, hierarchies, measures groups and KPIs to analyze performance of Strategic Business Units as well as corporate centers. Expertise inSQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS)to deliver online analyticalprocessing (OLAP)and data mining functionality for business intelligence applications. Experienced in Agile development mythology like SCRUM. In-depth knowledge of understanding all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Expertise in working on both Normalized and De-Normalized Database. Generated multiple Enterprise reports (SSRS/Crystal/Impromptu) from SQL Server Database (OLTP) andSQL Server Analysis Services Database (OLAP)and included various reporting features. Experience in Relational(OLTP)and Dimensional modeling(OLAP)concepts and constructs. Expert in designing complex reports like reports using Cascading parameters, Drill-Through Reports, Parameterized Reports and Report Models using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) based on client requirement and also ad-hoc reports in excel using pivot table/charts. Experienced in designing, creating, testing, and implementing complex reports using SSRS, Crystal Reports, Webi reports and Business Objects Enterprise reporting tools. Extensive experience in Deploying and Consolidating Multiple Instances over Clustering Environment and Remote Installations. Responsible for publishing of Crystal reports to Business Objects Infoview and configuring teh database in Business Objects Content Management Console (CMC). Appliedsecurity featuresof Business Objectslike row level, report level & object level security in teh universe so as to make teh sensitive data secure002E. Self-motivated and possess ability for critical thinking, analysis, good interpersonal and communication skills. Team-oriented, technically motivated and creative. User oriented with a desire to learn client's business requirements. Strong inclination for finishing job before project deadline. Flexible and versatile to adapt to any new environment and work on any project. TECHNICAL SKILLS Database Technologies:  SQL Server (2000, 2005, 2008,2008R2,2012,2014), Oracle 10g SQL, PLSQL Programming Languages:  SQL, T-SQL, HTML, HTML5, CSS, XML, C, C++, C# Business Intelligence Tools:  MSBI (SSIS, SSRS & SSAS), Metadata IDEs /Tools:  MS Visual Studio 2012/2008/2005/2000 , SSMS Other Tools:  MS Office Suite (Word, Power Point, Visio), OLAP, OLTP, TFS, JIRA Operating Systems:  Microsoft Windows 98/2000/2003 Server/XP/7/8/2008 Server/2012 Server ETL Tools:  Data Transformation Services (DTS) - Export/Import, SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) Reporting Tools:  SQL Server Reporting Services ( 2012/2008/2005/2000 ), Crystal Reporting, Webi Reporting, Microsoft Access 2013,Excel. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential - Sacramento, CA Senior SQL BI Developer Responsibilities: Worked with end users in understanding teh requirement and have designed teh reports accordingly. Identified teh required data objects in teh database and created various T-SQL and PL/SQL complex queries to pull data for reports. Created reports on claims, Billing/Finance, Provider Relations, Accounts Management and Fulfillment using SSRS and Crystal Reports. Created various SSIS packages to extract data from one data source and load in to other data ware house. Designed and Developed packages for system integration, product development and ongoing maintenance of teh tables usingSSIS. Developed SSIS package to Export and Import data from SQL Server to Access, Text and EXCEL files and Configured SQL mail agent for sending automatic mails. Created SSIS packages to import teh data into SQL server. DesignedSSISPackages to extract, transfer, load (ETL) existing data intoSQLServerfrom different environments for teh SSAS cubes. Experience with SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Power BI to author, manage and deliver paper- based, Web-based reports and Interactive Dashboards. Created reports using SSRS from OLTP and OLAP data sources and deployed on report server. Generated custom and parameterized reports using SSRS. Created various types of SSRS reports like drill down, drill through, sub reports, Nested Chart reports and create report parameters included single valued parameters, multi-value parameters which also consisted of different parameter types queried and non-queried parameters. Created SSIS packages to load data into Data Warehouse using Various SSIS Tasks like Execute SQL Task, bulk insert task, data flow task, file system task, send mail task, active script task, xml task. Created SSIS packages to import teh data into SQL server. Created Parameterized reports, linked reports, Cross-Tab reports, Drill down reports & Summary reports by UsingSSRS. Involved in Troubleshooting of teh already existing SSIS packages. Designed Dimensional Modeling using SSAS packages for End-User. Created Hierarchies in Dimensional Modeling. Extensively worked on OLAP cubes using SSAS. Expert in creating Star schema cubes using SSAS. Built many Crystal Reports using “Add Command”, assigning parameters at command level, and applying criteria at Select Expert. Created Crystal Report to Monitor a list of all imaging orders scheduled for a day, including their current statuses, to ensure teh schedule stays on track. Performance testing on stored procedures, indexes, and triggers. Created complex stored procedures with parameters and generated multi parameterized SSRS reports from them, where teh user has a choice to select teh parameters. Loaded data from one schema to another schema within teh database through stored procedures. Performing SQL server daily health check and preparing a report based on it. Validate teh data in reports with respect to data in teh application. Environment: MS SQL Server 2012, SQL Server Reporting Services, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), ETL, Business Objects XI 4.0/3.1, Crystal Reporting 2013/2008, Info View, CMC, Visual Studio, OLAP. Confidential, NC16 Sr. SQL BI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process by analyzing business requirements and understanding teh functional work flow of information from source systems to destination systems. Implementation and delivery of MSBI platform solutions to develop and deploy ETL, analytical, reporting and scorecard / dashboards on SQL Server 2012 using SSAS, SSIS/DTS, SSRS. Created stored procedures, Triggers, User-defined Functions, Views for both Online and Batch requests handling business logic and functionality of various modules. Wrote complex T-SQL batches with Common Table Expressions (CTE’s) for recursive operations. Generated Sales Ranking reports using SQL Server Reporting Services for different subjects. Actively involved in developing Complex SSRS Reports involving Sub Reports, Matrix/Tabular Reports, Charts and Graphs. Involved in Designing, Developing and Testing of teh ETL (Extract, Transformation and Load) strategy to populate teh data from various source systems feeds using SSIS. Designed ETL packages dealing with different data sources (SQL Server, Flat Files) and loaded teh data into target data sources by performing different kinds of transformations using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS). Responsible for coding SSIS processes to import data into teh Data Warehouse from Excel spreadsheets, Flat Files and OLEDB Sources. Development and deploying of teh SSIS 2005/2008/2012 packages to maintain update and migrate teh data into and from teh FACETS application database. Created Packages, Jobs and Sending Alerts using SQL Mail, database Backup, Recovery and Disaster Recovery procedures. Planned teh complete Back-up of various Databases for Disaster recovery scenarios. Studied existing OLAP system(s) and created facts, dimensions and star schema representation for teh data mart and warehouse systems. Involved to planning and designing SSAS 2012 Cubes and building attribute relationships for optimal MDX query performance of Hierarchies and Fact Dimensions. Involved in Staging Partitions and Usage Based Optimization (UBO) mechanisms for SSAS 2012 and 2008 OLAP databases. Querying and manipulating multidimensional cube data through MDX Scripting inSSAS. Experience in Designing, Creating, Deploying and Processing of Cubes usingSSAS. Experience in creating and managingSSASTabular models, creating Dimension and Fact Tables. ETL Programming for capturing data from disparate sources using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS, SSRS) with Visual Studio, and Analysis Services. Generated various reports with drilldowns, drill through, parameterized reports from teh cubes by connecting to Analysis server from SSRS. Deployed teh SSRS reports in Microsoft office share point portal server. Developed numerous ad-hoc reports using SSRS for day to day reporting. Environment: SQL Server 2012/2008/2008 R2/2012 Enterprise Edition, SQL Server Data Tools, SQL Server Business Intelligence Development Studio (SSIS, SSRS, SSAS), TSQL, C#, XML, MS Visual Source Safe and Windows Server 2010. Confidential, Chicago, IL. Sr. SQL BI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Technical decisions for Business requirement, Interaction with Business Analysts, Client team, Development team, Capacity planning and Upgrading of SQL Servers Developed stored procedures, views and User Defined Functions using T-SQL statements. Installed and Maintained MS SQL Server 2000/2005. Involved in creating clustered and Non-Clustered Indexes to improve teh database transactions performance. Involved in database development using stored procedures, triggers, views and cursors. Converted, loaded and integrated data from Access, Excel, text.csv files and internal database applications including teh mainframe with data captured for security applications Developed complex reports like Drill capabilities, Complex freehand SQL queries, Functions, Master Detail, and Cross Tab with multiple breaks. Implemented SSIS data transformation scripts, created maintenance procedures and provided data integrity strategies. Developed SSIS solution for developing a fully-fledged data warehouse solution. Involved in re-design, re-code, and deploy new data extractions using SSIS, and designed and produced documentation of data transformations for all extractions. Created SSIS Packages to import and export data from Excel Spreadsheets, Text files and CSV files. Created Packages, Jobs and Sending Alerts using SQL Mail, database Backup, Recovery and Disaster Recovery procedures. Planned teh complete Back-up of various Databases for Disaster recovery scenarios Extensively worked on Developing SSAS Cubes, Aggregation, KPIs, Measures, Partitioning Cube, Data Mining Models and Deploying and Processing SSAS objects. Generated Daily, Weekly, and Monthly Reports as per teh customer requirements using subscriptions and Created Tabular Reports, Cross Tab Reports, Sub Reports. Developed various types of reports like drill down, matrix, cross tab, ad hoc, Parameterized and cascading parameterized reports using SSRS. Environment: SQL Server 2012/2008/2005 Enterprise Edition, SQL Server Data Tools, SQL Server Business Intelligence Development Studio (SSIS, SSRS, SSAS), TSQL, C#, .Net framework, XML, MS Visual Source Safe and Windows Server 2003. Confidential Database Developer Responsibilities: Designed logical and physical models for staging database and data warehouse using Erwin database modelling tool. Created database projects for staging database and data warehouse in visual studio 2008, to store all related objects at one centralized location. Designed teh entire ETL process involving teh access, manipulation, analysis, interpretation and presentation of information from both internal and secondary data sources to teh business. Created complex ETL (SSIS) packages to pull data from DB2/Oracle, load monthly data from Excel to SQL server. Used master child SSIS packages for better design and ease of maintenance. Implemented error & failure handling in SSIS packages using event handlers, row redirects, check points and used loggings for monitoring teh execution. Created alerts and mail confirmation of all packages and cube processes in SQL server Agent to get event messages such as success/failure of package, procedure. Deployed SSIS packages to teh production server using XML and SQL server configurations. Created different kind of reports like parameterized reports, drill down reports, and sub reports to support business needs and involved in report deployment and report security. Created Ad-hoc reports using Report Models (. smdl) files and deployed it on Report Manager to create reports on teh fly for teh people who are less adept with technical skills. Configured deployment of SQL Server Reporting Services to work with deployment of Microsoft SharePoint Integrated mode. Created a SQL reporting services (SSRS) and SSIS infrastructure that pulls data from data sources and provides a sample to use reporting environment. Used SSRS Report Catalog to store teh Configuration, Security and Caching Information for teh Operation of teh Report Server. Create SSRS reports against Team Foundation Server Database. Implemented security on reports at Server Level, Report Level and Item Level according to teh hierarchy in teh organization and business requirement. Environment: SQL Server 2008, Transact-SQL, Extract transform Loading (ETL), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS, SSRS, SSAS), Extract Transform Load, Transact-SQL, Visual studio, C#.Net, ASP.NET (2.0), Erwin, Windows Server, ProClarity, Query Analyzer, Web Services. Confidential SQL Server Developer Responsibilities: Involved in design and analysis of underlying database schema, altering and creation of teh table structure. Database and Log Backup, Restoration, Backup Strategies, Scheduling Backups. Backing up master & system databases and restoring them. Design and developing SSIS Packages, migrating DTS Packages to SSIS Packages. Migrated database objects from MSSQL 2000 to MSSQL 2005. Created Cubes and performed data mining on teh data using teh fact table and teh dimension. Experience in data mining and analysis, design and construction of data marts, data views. Used Performance point service to integrate SSRS reports. Created MDX script for representing Cube Calculation using SSAS. Updated functional specification and technical design documents. Studied teh existing OLTP system(s) and Created facts, dimensions and star schema representation for teh data mart. ETL through SSIS and responsible for loading Data to DB from different input sources. Generated specifications for analysis reports by using SQL Server 2005/2008 Reporting Services (SSRS). Generated reports using Crystal Reports and Developing SQL stored procedures, views and triggers. Scheduled Jobs and Alerts using SQL Server Agent Improved teh performance of teh SQL server queries using query plan, covering index, indexed views and by rebuilding and reorganizing teh indexes. Created tables and provided constraints and user defined rules and defaults. Performed DBCC checks and fixing data corruption in Application databases. Environment: MS SQL Server 2005/2008, MS Visual Studio 2005/2008, Windows 2000/2003, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, MDX, OLAP, ETL, T-SQL, Erwin, Query Analyzer, SQL-Profiler, SQL Server Enterprise Manager. 