SUMMARY: 10 years of experience as Production DBA and Database Designer on SQL server 2012/ 2008/2005/2000/7.0 wif different environments. Experience in supporting Very Large databases (VLDB) and troubleshooting the problems and also good experience wif complex databases. Involved in migrating and upgrading SQL server 2000 to SQL Server 2005, SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008. Experience in Installing and Configuring and supporting 2 - node (A/A, A/P) and 4-node (A/A/A/P, A/A/P/P) Clustered Environment. Implemented database Mirroring and Clustering as High availability techniques. Experience in migrating DTS Packages to SSIS Packages. Experience in enterprise-scale relational Data Models and Data Warehouse, including both relational and dimensional models and the use of standard data modeling tools, preferably ER/Win. Used IBM Tivoli monitoring tool to check the Status of Jobs, Errors, Locks, SpaceUsage and Availability of Databases. Involved in Authoring, deploying, delivering of reports using SSRS. Implementing Transactional and Snapshot replication and Performed log shipping as Disaster recovery solutions. Designed and visualized data mining models using SSAS. Implemented Data portioning Technique which is newly introduced in SQL server2005. Experience wif SQL Server 2008 New concepts like Hot-Add CPU, Hot-Add Memory. Familiar wif SQL Server 2008 concepts like Data Compression, Backup stream compression. Familiar wif SQL Server 2008 new index types like FILTERED indexes. Familiar wif Database Encryption and New SQL server 2008 Data types like Date, Time, GEOMETRY and GEOGRAPHY data types. Experience wif other 2005 new concepts like DMV’S, DMF’S, and performance dash board. Implemented 2005 new concepts like online indexing and DDL Triggers For Better performance. Expertise in writing Complex Multi Dimensional Expression (MDX) Queries, Data Mining Extension (DMX) queries, XMLA Queries. Experience in implementing and maintaining new T-SQL features added in SQL Server 2005 dat are Data partitioning, Error handling through TRY-CATCH statement, Common Table Expression (CTE). Configured and maintained more TEMPthan 2GB ram on sql server 32 bit, 64 bit and 64I bit environments. Extensively worked on 32 bit and 64 bit standalone server environments. Handled up to 2TB size database wif clustered and replication environment. Expert in performance tuning and handling blocking situation and deadlock situations. Experience in Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, Database consistency checks and Index Tuning Wizard. Experience in supporting huge databases, troubleshooting the problems and documenting Root cause analysis. Intensive experience in monitoring database performance using SQL Profiler and Windows Performance Monitor. Experience in maintaining the security for databases (creating logins for users, roles, and assigning permissions to them). Good Experience in Database Backup, Recovery and Restoring as daily activities. Used third party Quest tools like spot light and fog light and lite speed for backing up large databases. In-depth knowledge of T-SQL (DDL, DML, and DCL). Experience in writing and tuning Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Cursors and Triggers as application needs. Performed system performance analysis using EMS tools. OLAP experience like Analysis Services, Business Intelligence. Experience in extracting and transforming data using SSIS, DTS Import/Export Data, Bulk Insert, BCP and DTS Packages. Generated and managed reports using SQL Server 2005 Reporting Services. Developed packages through SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS). Extensively Worked wif Multi Dimensional objects Such as cubes. Involved in various data loadings to cubes for reporting and analysis purpose. 24/7 Production Database on Call Support. Transferred data (ETL) to Data ware house Environment using SSIS. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Project Domain:  Application Development, Systems Integration and Database Administration of MS SQL Server 2012/ 2008/2005/2000/7.0 /6.5. Languages:  Visual Basic 6/5, ASP, C, XML, HTML, SAS. Database:  SQL Server 2008/2005/2000/7.0 , DB2 8x UDB, MSSQL, Access and, Sybase. Tools: Visual Basic, PAL, Active X, IIS, SSIS, DTS, MTS, Fog Light, Redgate, Litespeed, Spotlight, Crystal reports. Operating System:  Windows 2003/2000 Advanced Server, UNIX, NT & Windows 9x. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential MS SQL Server DBA Responsibilities: Installed SQL server 2008 on windows 2003/2008R2 advanced servers, applied security fixes. Involved in Migrating SQL Server 2005 Servers to SQL server 2008 Installed and Configured MS SQL Server 2008 R2, and responsible for configuration, tuning and provide support to all Production and development servers. Maintained database response times in 24X7 Production environments, proactively generated performance reports. Automating most of the DBA Tasks and monitoring stats. Planning and implementation of database backup/restore and disaster recovery. Analyzing business requirements and build logical data models dat describe all the data and relationships between the data. Performed system performance analysis using EMS tools. Responsible for defining Check constraints, Business Rules, tuning data, indexes, and queries. Configuring and administering Database Mirroring, Log Shipping on SQL Server 2008R2 Developing SQL scripts for maintaining administration tasks. Additionally, designed and implemented a disaster recovery system. Running Index tuning wizard and rebuilding indexes for faster query response. Writing Stored Procedures, Functions and triggers based on the requirement. Creating jobs/maintenance plans for Database. Configured Server for sending automatic mails to the respective people when a SSIS process failure or success. Using SQL server reporting services (SSRS) delivering enterprise, Web-enabled reporting so create reports dat draw content from a variety of data sources. Implemented MS SQL Server security policies and granted object level permissions. Created jobs for rebuilding of indexes and updating statistics. Planning, Configuration and Monitoring of Log shipping. Performed Role Reversal of Primary and Secondary servers of the log shipped database. Performed all aspects of database administration, including data modeling, backups and recovery. Configured Transactional replication between Primary Server and three Read-Only servers, wif separate Distributor server and experience in troubleshooting replication problems. Expertise in Security Issues such as creation and granting permissions on various Objects. Prepared the reports for the day-to-day as well as weekly/monthly purposes. Performance Monitoring of MS SQL Server 2005/2008. Environment: Windows 2003/2008, MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012. Confidential, Richardson, TX MS SQL Server DBA Responsibilities: SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000 Database Administration. Implemented the disaster recovery models like clustering, mirroring, log shipping and transactional replication. Involved in the migration of SQL Server 2000 databases to SQL Server 2008. Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency. Implemented new T-SQL features added in SQL Server 2005 dat are Data partitioning, Error handling through TRY-CATCH statement, Common Table Expression (CTE), Data Partitioning and Snapshot Isolation. Performed system performance analysis using EMS tools. Experience in Database security and integrity planning. Created Maintenance Plans for Regular Backups and Rebuilding of Indexes. Tuning queries which are running slow using Profiler and Statistics Io by using different Methods in terms of evaluating joins, indexes, updating Statistics and code modifications. Configured more TEMPthan 2 GB ram on 32 bit Environment. Migrated DTS packages to SSIS packages. Successfully implemented the Capacity planning for different servers. Identified, tested, and resolved database performance issues (monitoring and tuning) to ensure database optimization. Checking Database Health by using DBCC Commands and DMVS Automated and enhanced daily administrative tasks, including space management, backup& Recovery and performance monitoring. Created alerts and notifications for system errors, insufficient resources, and fatal database errors Wrote scripts dat extract data from database tables and write the data to textFiles. Developed Database Triggers to enforce Data integrity and additional Referential Integrity. Created SQL reports, data extraction and data loading scripts for different databases and Schemas. Generated server side T-SQL scripts for data manipulation and validation and created various Snapshots and materialized views for remote instances. Developed procedures and functions for business &data transactions wif error handling Assisted on the Adhoc-Query Requests based on the requirement by using Joins, Sub Queries and Co-related Sub Queries. Tuned stored procedures by adding the try catch blocks for error handling. Created the documentation for issue diagnostics reports. Managing the VERITAS net backups and Litespeed. Environment: Windows 2003/2008, MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012. Confidential, Austin, TX MS SQL Server DBA Responsibilities: SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000 Database Administration. Implemented the disaster recovery models like clustering, mirroring, log shipping and transactional replication. Involved in the migration of SQL Server 2000 databases to SQL Server 2008. Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency. Implemented new T-SQL features added in SQL Server 2005 dat are Data partitioning, Error handling through TRY-CATCH statement, Common Table Expression (CTE), Data Partitioning and Snapshot Isolation. Experience in Database security and integrity planning. Created Maintenance Plans for Regular Backups and Rebuilding of Indexes. Tuning queries which are running slow using Profiler and Statistics Io by using different Methods in terms of evaluating joins, indexes, updating Statistics and code modifications. Environment: SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2005/2000 Enterprise Edition, SSIS, Windows Server 2003. Confidential, Charlotte, NC MS SQL Server DBA Responsibilities: Served as a SQL Server DBA and P.O.C for an E-ordering Application. Responsible for maintaining High availability servers like Clustering and transactional Replication. Responsible for solving application related issues in all environments (Dev, Staging, production) like query timeouts. Handled issues in Replication like Replication Agents Failure, Subscription failure etc. Involved in Migration from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008. Involved in migrating several DTS packages to SSIS Packages. Responsible for Performance tuning like optimizing stored procedures which involves re-writing Some portion of code according to business and adding some indexes to base tables etc. Developed and optimized database structures, stored procedures, Dynamic Management views, DDL triggers and user-defined functions Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance improvement in hosted Databases. dis involved index creation, index removal, index modification, filegroup Modifications and updating statistics in databases. Implemented Data Partitioning Strategy for Better performance. Responsible for Monitoring Daily running jobs like Data Loading jobs, Replication jobs. Responsible for trouble shooting failed jobs and Replication Related issues etc. Suggested better scheduling strategy for jobs to overcome blocking and dead locks. Involved in Data archiving and purging process as a part of maintenance. Traced long running queries and Stored Proc s using SQL Profiler to tune them as a part of Application enhancement. Used Index tuning wizard for Tuning of indexes. Implemented other new T-SQL features added in SQL Server 2005 Like Error handling through TRY-CATCH statement, Common Table Expression (CTE). Extensively worked on Dynamic Management Views (DMV’s) and Dynamic Management Functions (DMF’s). Developed, deployed and monitored SSIS Packages to automate several tasks. Responsible for Deploying Code changes, code review and Code Releases in all Environments wif respect to release deadlines. Managing the clustering environment. Using log shipping for synchronization of database. Hands on experience and outstanding knowledge of high availability SQL Server solutions, including replication and SQL Server clustering Suggest replication techniques to meet business needs. Maintain transactional replication on production SQL Servers. Set up transactional, snapshot replication and maintain the active replication(s). Maintaining the database consistency wif DBCC at regular intervals. Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency. Complete documentation about the database. To analyze long running slow queries and tune the same to optimize application and system performance. To set up SQL Server configuration settings. Performed daily backup and created named backup devices to backup the servers regularly. Environment: SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2005/2000 Enterprise Edition, SSIS, Windows Server 2003. Confidential SQL Server DBA Responsibilities: Installation & configuration 2005 enterprise Edition. Expertise and Interest include Administration, Database Design, Performance Analysis, and Production Support for Large (VLDB) and Complex Databases up to 2 Terabytes. Migrating SQL Server 2000 data bases into SQL Server 2008. Converting DTS packages to SSIS packages. Dynamic configuration for memory. Designed the reporting databases by using Erwin. Transformation of data (Millions of records) to SQL server by SSIS, DTS, BCP. Played a key role in business requirements analysis, architecture designs, physical and logical Data modeling, application development by using Erwin. Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance. Created stored procedures for maintaining SQL Server, Written Stored Procedures for Application Developers. Compare and synchronize your database schemas or data by using red gate Migrate databases easily from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005 by using redgate. Managing the clustering environment. Using log shipping for synchronization of database. Hands on experience and outstanding knowledge of high availability SQL Server solutions, including replication and SQL Server clustering Suggest replication techniques to meet business needs. Maintain transactional replication on production SQL Servers. Set up transactional, snapshot replication and maintain the active replication(s). Maintaining the database consistency wif DBCC at regular intervals. Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency. Complete documentation about the database. To analyze long running slow queries and tune the same to optimize application and system performance. To set up SQL Server configuration settings. Performed daily backup and created named backup devices to backup the servers regularly. Generated Script files of the databases whenever changes are made to stored procedures or views. Created and managed schema objects such as tables, views, clusters, indexes, procedures, and triggers and maintained Referential Integrity. Performance tuning and optimization of Query of SQL server. Supporting programmers for moving objects to different environments. Creating and maintaining user’s logins and Roles. Tuned the database to perform efficiently by managing databases using the options to grow or shrink database files and monitored the size of the transaction log. Managed databases on multiple disks using Disk Mirroring and RAID technology. Estimated space requirements for a database. Worked on Clustering, DTS, Import and Export utility, BCP Utility and replication tool for transferring data. Planned and setup replication. Converted and imported data from an Oracle Database to a SQL Server Database. Worked in tune wif strategic planning for improving the mapping and data migration. Environment: Windows 2003, MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008. Confidential, Thousand Oaks, CA MS SQL Server DBA Responsibilities: Handled up to 2 TB Size databases wif clustered and replication environment Relocation of Databases from one server to another server using attach and detach databases. Migrated of databases from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server 2005. Extensively worked on Dynamic Management Views (DMV’s). Server Integration Services (SSIS). Converting DTS packages into SQL Server 2005 Integration Services. Wrote the packages using SSIS IN SQL 2005 Developed, deployed and monitored SSIS Packages. Export or Import datafrom other data sources likeflat files using Import/Export through SSIS. ETLexperiencewif SSAS and SSIS. Worked on Data Partitioning and Snapshot Isolation in SQL Server 2005. Rebuilding the indexes at regular intervals for better performance Implemented log shipping between two instances of servers using Database Maintenance Plan by creating a Monitor server and a shared Folder. Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its performance and concurrency Monitoring the servers usingIderathird party software. Maintaining the database consistency wif DBCC at regular intervals Used DTS packages to move logins and jobs from one server to another server. Expertise in SQL Server Reporting Services(SSRS) Monitoring SQL server performance using profiler to find performance and dead locks. To analyze long running slow queries and tune the same to optimize application and system performance. To set up SQL Server configuration settings to resolve various resource allocation & memory issues for SQL Server databases and to setup ideal memory, min/max server options. Prepared theproject managementandtechnical documentation. Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005 Enterprise, Windows Enterprise Server 2003, IIS 6.0, .NET,ASP, Microsoft Visio 2003 Confidential SQL Server DBA Responsibilities: To ensure trouble free access to SQL Server databases 24 hours a day. Monitored health conditions of databases and performed a day to day task like taking backups and restoring them Monitoring Log shipping/Replication and trouble shooting of errors. Planning for and carrying out installation and upgrade of SQL Servers. Security issues related to logins, database users, and application roles and linked Servers. Performance Tuning of SQL queries and stored procedures using SQL profiler Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases Analyzing the problems in the production environment and try to develop new procedures and methods for monitoring the problems and send alert messages to take pro-active action. Wrote scripts for generating Daily Backup Report, verifying completion of all routine backups, Log Space utilization monitoring etc. Prepared schedule and template report for Database Health-check activities. Prepared Shift Handover Template to facilitate effective communication among team members. Backups and Restoration of data/database using a Third Party Tool (SQL Litespeed). Involved in Design and Development of Disaster Recovery Plan. Environment: SQL Server 2000/7.0. Windows 2003/2000 Server and LiteSpeed. 