SUMMARY 8 years of experience as .Net Developer and Web Developerin all phases of product development life cycle that includes Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Testing, Deployment, Maintenance and Documentation. 8 years of experience in C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, SQL, JavaScript;3 years VB.NET. Expertise in working with technologies like Visual Studio .NET  2008/ 2010/ 2012/ 2013 , C#.NET, ASP.NET, VB.NET, MVC 3/4/5, .NET Framework   3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5  , ADO.NET. Experience in working with Model View Controller (MVC),MVVM,LINQ,Entity Framework,WebAPI, Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), REST Web Service and SOAP. Hands - on experience in application development and testing using ASP.NET, HTML/DHTML, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, CSS3 and SQL Server 2008/2012. 5 years of experiencein SQL Programming. Worked on SQLite and SQLCiper, Database Design, Implementation and writing T-SQL Scripts, Stored procedures, Triggers andViews. Experience in User Interfaces using HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, Themes, Skins, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, KnockoutJSand NodeJs to enhance the look and feel of the website. Experience in Developing XML and JSONusing C#. Worked on MS Visual Studio 2013 and have end to end knowledge in integration of TFS and VSS. Strong knowledge of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and experience in working with Agile Development Methodology. Experience in version controlling tools SVN, Team Foundation Server. 4 years ofexperience in Manual and Automation Testing along with NUnit Testing. 3 years of experience working with reporting tools like SSRS andSSIS. Strong analytical and problem-solving techniques,Quick learner with the ability to work in a fast-paced, results oriented environment with consistently delivering high quality work. Expertise in understanding user requirements and translating business requirements into technical solutions with excellent problem solving and troubleshooting capabilities. Experience working in both team and individual environment. Assisted junior members of the team in various projects. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages:  C#.NET, VB.NET,PL/SQL, MVC3/4/5/6, JavaScript Web Technologies:  HTML/DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Web Services, ADO.NET, ASP.Net   3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5  , Bootstrap, AJAX, XML,AngularJS and KnockoutJS Development Tools:  Visual Studio  2010/2012/2013.  Development Methodology:  Agile Development Methodology, Waterfall Model. Web Servers:  IIS 6.0/7.0/8.0 Databases:  SQL Server  2005/2008/2012 , Ms Access Operating Systems:  Windows 98/2000/XP, Windows 7, Windows Server 2003 Other Tools:  SVN, MS Visio, Jenkins, MS Word. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Houston, TX Sr UI Developer Responsibilities: Reported to the Team Lead. Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Maintenance phases of the project life cycle which includes Support of application. Involved in designing and coding the various core components and UI Screens for the Outbound Interface in the Application using ASP.NET, AngularJS2 and Kendo UI. Actively involved in gathering the requirements from the client. Followed Agile Methodologies and Test Driven Development. Used HTML/DHTML, XHTMLand Web Form Controls to create web pages. Used XML and JSONfiles to store data and to bind data with the controls on the front end. Designed tables as per the business requirements and generated SQL scripts to create tables. Worked with Object Oriented Programming Concepts and used WCF for creating service oriented applications. Worked on Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for formatting the Webpages based on the business requirements and functional requirements document. Worked with client side validations using JavaScript. Extensively involved in .Net Exception Handling Management, Debugging and tracing of Application. Understanding the functionality, Identifying & troubleshooting the code defects and in turn contributing to getting them fixed. Hands-on experience in developing, debugging multi-tier applications using C#, VB.NET,MVC, T-SQL. Implemented the business logic in C# and worked with REST Web Service. Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for integration, maintenance and Security of code Extensively worked on stored procedures, triggers, functions, views, temporary tables and table variables. Debugged web applications and JavaScript using Firefox Firebug, Fiddler, and IE Developer Toolbar. Modified various existing procedures for speed, efficiency, and accuracy, including database tuning. Implemented the search functionality for Internal application using AngularJS and knockoutJS Provided Production support for the maintenance of the application. Created packages through SQL Server Integration Services. WroteLINQ enabled queries to access the data from SQL Server database and used SQLite and SQLCiper. Used JQuery for handling events and document navigation. Wrote various Unit Test methods for testing the application. Analyzed the root causes of the various issues and solved them accordingly. Documented the coding Technical artefacts. Created JavaScript modules to be used with Bootstrap to speed up development. Front end development utilizing HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript leveraging the Bootstrap framework and a Java / SQL backend Environment: ASP.NET4.0/4.5, C#, VB.NET, Visual Studio 2012/2013, WCF, WPF, HTML/DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, AngularJS, KnockoutJS, Bootstrap, HTML5, LINQ, jQuery, SVN,REST Web Service, ADO.NET,TFS, SSIS, MVC4/5/6, SQL Server 2012. Confidential, Columbus, OH Team Lead Responsibilities: Working in Agile Environment to deliver high-quality software far more rapidly. Involved in Requirements gathering, Conceptual Design, Analysis and Detail Design & Development of the Architecture Participated in daily scrums and weekly meetings with the project sponsors to meet expectations and deadlines. Modified web services using C# and VB.NET to interact with the other applications and exposed them using SOAP and HTTP. Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL Server and used ADO.Net with Grid View, Data List, Details view, Dataset Classes for data manipulation. Extensive use of OOP design patterns. Used JavaScript for client side validation. Used AngularJS and KnockoutJS MVC Frameworks in the development of web applications. Used Cascading Style Sheets, JSON and HTML5 for ASP.NET web pages. Used HTML, XHTML and Web Form Controls to create web pages. Used XML files to store data and to bind data with the controls on the front end. Created Stored Procedures, Indexes, Views, Triggers and T-SQL Scriptsusing SQL Server Presented the designs and project initiatives for approval to upper management. Reused existing COM Components from .NET framework, User Controls and Classes. Debugged web applications and JavaScript using Fiddler and IE Developer Toolbar. Investigated bugs and interacted with developers to resolve technical issues. Involved in unit testing and wrote variousNUnit test methods for testing the application. Wrote the technical documentation of the application. Environment: C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, MVC3, HTML/DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, XML,JSON, jQuery, AngularJS, KnockoutJS, SVN,AJAX,SOAP, SQL Server 2008, Visual Studio 2012, MS Visio, LINQ, ADO.NET. Confidential, Houston, TX Web Developer Responsibilities: Reported to the Team Lead. Involved in designing the various core components in the Application using ASP.NET. Implemented Client Side Validations using Java Script to validate the data. Implemented Security at various levels (SSL, Form-based authentication, Role based Authorization). Developed ADO.NET based middle-tier components to interact with the SQL Server 2008 database and to exchange data with the presentation-tier. Developed front end using ASP.NET Server controls, Validation controls and User controls for rapid application development. Used Cascading Style Sheets for ASP.NET web pages. Conducted backend tests by writing SQL queries for database verification and Query Performed Unit Testing. Wrote complex stored procedures, functions and cursors in SQL Server according to the business requirements. Created and implemented table structures, relationships and normalization. Involved in Object Oriented Programming. Documented the coding technical artifacts. Analyzed root causes of the various issues and solved them accordingly. Environment: C#, ASP.NET 3.0, MVC3, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2008, HTML, DHTML, jQuery, JavaScript, Visual Studio 2010, XML, SVN, MS Visio. Confidential, Flint, MI .NET Developer Responsibilities: Participated in Requirement Analysis study and Involved in requirements gathering. Worked with functional teams to define and implement migration strategiesfromlegacy systemsto new architecture and technologies. Used simplified client and server side validation, better sessionmanagement and powerful data access management using ASP.NET. Design and development of multiple system integration points using .net web services (written in C#) in combination with AJAX style web development. Generated reports from the extracted data using SSRS. Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and Object Oriented Programming. Developed the Data Access Layer using C#and made use of data controls Data Grid, Data List and Repeater Controls throughout the application to display data in a customized format in the ASP.NET web pages. Developed custom web application module with ASP.NET, C# and integrated with the portal sites. Extensively used XSLT for transforming the data and XML in Business Layer. Created existing Stored Procedures, Views, Functions and T-SQL in SQL Server 2008. Created custom document libraries, content types and web parts for web content management in the portal sites. Wrote various Unit Test methods for testing the application. Environment: Visual Studio 2008, ASP.NET 3.5, C#.NET, ADO.NET, AJAX,IIS 6.0, TFS, XML, JavaScript, SSRS, Web-Services, SQL Server 2008. Confidential .NET Developer Responsibilities: Analyzed the specifications provided by the clients. Involved in requirements gathering, functional and technical specification. Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, Business and Data Access Layers using C#. Coding and debugging using ASP.NET and C#. Developed the web forms using ASP.NET Server controls and performed validation on the client side using JavaScript and Validation Controls. For consistent data access used ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Data Adapter and Data Set. Created Stored Procedures, Indexes, Views, Triggersand T-SQL using SQL Server 2005. Wrote complex stored procedures, functions and cursors in SQL Server according to the business requirements. Implemented the reporting functionality of the application using SSRS. Used Automation Testing for testing the application. Created reports using the Crystal Report for the report needed by Middle Office, Back Office users. Involved in enhancing the business layer to provide more interfaces and functions needed for the system. Worked with OOP design patterns and used Waterfallmodel as the Software Development Life Cycle. Environment: -Visual Studio 2008, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, .NET Framework 3.0, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Web Forms, SSRS, JavaScript, Microsoft, XML, Web Services, IIS, SQL Server 2005. 