SUMMARY: Havening 7+ years of strong experience in the IT industry as a MS SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 Developer/BI Developer in various domains like Finance and Healthcare. Maintained positive communications and working relationship at all levels. Expert noledge of all phase of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) involving Systems Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation. Experience in analytical Database Design and Data Modeling skills using MS Visio and ERWIN. Expert in Extraction Transformation Loading (ETL), Data warehousing, Operations Data Store concepts, data marts and OLAP - Online Analytical Processing technologies. Excellent noledge of Data Warehousing methodologies and concepts, including star schemas, snowflakes, ETL processes, dimensional modeling and reporting tools. Highly proficient in the use of T-SQL for developing complex stored procedures, triggers, tables, user functions, user profiles, relational database models and data integrity, SQL joins and query writing. Experienced in designing high level ETL architecture, creating, configuring and fine tuning ETL workflows( control flows and data flows) designed in DTS for overall data transfer from the OLTP to OLAP with the help of SSIS. Expert in developing and modifying multi dimensional cubes using MS SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS). Hands on experience in implementing Key Performance Indicator (KPI) Objects and partitions in SSAS 2008/2005. Strong in developing and modifying cubes using SSAS and transform into pivot table. Experienced in writing Parameterized Queries for generating Tabular reports, Formatting report layout, Sub reports using Global Variables, Expressions, Functions, Sorting the data, Defining Data Source and subtotals for the reports using SSRS 2008/2005. Expert in developing Drill through and Drill down reports using Crystal Reports and MS SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) Extensively used performance monitor/SQL profiler to solve dead locks/long running queries. Experience in creating Jobs, Alerts, SQL Mail Agent, Database Mail and Scheduled DTS and SSIS Packages Expert in using Bulk Copy Program (BCP), Data Transformation Services (DTS) packages and SSIS (integration services) with MS SQL Server 2008/2005/2000. Hands on experience in production/staging/test/development database administrative: Database Installation, Configuration, Maintenance, snap-shots, Monitoring, Backup and Disaster Recovery procedure and Replication. Quick learner, excellent communication skills and good performer both in team and independent job environments. Never missed the deadline of any projects. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, Dublin,OH MS SQL Server Developer/SSIS Responsibilities: Dynamically supported business users for given requirements and developed the reports accordingly & ETL operations in T-SQL. Developed various T-SQL stored procedures triggers, views, and adding/changing tables for data load and transformation, and data extraction. Created database maintenance planner for the performance of SQL Server, which covers Database integrity checks, update Database statistics and re-indexing. Involved with architecture of SSIS & SSRS by maintain service performance. Created various database objects such as tables, indexes and views based on the requirement. Created SSIS packages to clean and load data to data warehouse. Created package to transfer data between OLTP and OLAP database using Fuzzy Lookup, Derived Columns, Condition Split, Aggregate, Execute SQL Task, Data Flow Task, Execute Package Task etc to load underlying data in to the tables from Text files. Developed Cubes using SQL Analysis Services (SSAS) and Experience in Developing and Extending OLAP Cubes, Dimensions and data source view. Generated Named calculations and named queries. Created Dimensions with the cube wizard and also individually. Deployment of Cubes to the production server. Generated various reports with drilldowns, calculated members, dropdowns from the cubes by connecting to Analysis server from SSRS. Worked on large data warehouse Analysis services servers and developed the different reports for the analysis from that servers. Generate some Complex SSIS package as per Business Requirement. Responsible for all Research and Integration of Data source in SQL and DataStage. Create and analyse grid report, also added the report to a new dashboard. Involved deploying the dashboard to SharePoint 2010. Used various report items like tables, sub report and charts to develop the reports in SSRS. Deployed and Schedule SSIS Package for Production Support & Requirement from Client Side. Environment: MS SQL Server 2008, Management Studio, SSIS, SQL Profiler, SSRS 2008, MS Visual Safe Source, Erwin Tool and Windows XP Professional. Confidential, Broadway, NY SQL Server Developer Responsibilities: Responsible to provide optimized solutions, suggest re-usable code/components to implement enhancements in a more efficient manner in the new system without effecting the existing functionality. Provided optimized solutions, error free data migration and suggest re-usable code/components to implement enhancements in a more efficient manner in the new system without effecting the existing functionality. Worked with the DBA to propose robust database architecture. Good hands on noledge of reporting tools such as Crystal Reports 11.0, SQL Server 2008 Reporting Services. Developed a number of packages for the ETL processes to load the Claims, Members and Providers data into production database. Active role in the post-production analysis, support and documentation for the application. Created Deployment Plan for phased deployment of multiple units within the existing data model to migrate to an updated data model. Environment: SQL Server 2008, Microsoft Visio, DTS, Query Analyzer, Erwin, Crystal Reports, Visual Studio and Windows XP. Confidential, Hartford, CT MS SQL Server / SSIS/SSRS Developer Responsibilities: Gatheird functional requirements and Business requirements and written the technical specifications for building the Enterprise Integrated Data warehouse. Worked closely with developers, end users in designing and creating the Enterprise Integrated Data warehouse. Involved in the complete data warehouse development life cycle. Debugged the mappings extensively, hard coding the test data ids to test the logics going instance by instance. Reorganized database structures as needed, automated procedures at regular intervals. Optimized long running Stored Procedures and Queries for TEMPeffective data retrieval. Performed various transformations, aggregations and ranking routines on the data to be stored in the application reporting mart. Handle the Migration process from Development, Test and Production Environments. Developed and maintained data cubes using ODBC to access heterogeneous data sources and defined Data Source Name. Designed and maintained a web reporting environment including portal, dashboards, scorecards and presentations using SQL Server 2005 and Crystal reports. High Level Design of ETL DTS Package for integrating data from heterogeneous sources (Excel, CSV, flat file, Text Format Data) Provided technical guidance and support to end-users by developing documentations required. Environment: SQL Server 2005, Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, VB Script, Windows Server 2003 Platform, MS Office 2000, VB.net, Report net, ERWIN Confidential SQL Server Developer Responsibilities: Installed and configured SQL Server 2000 on Windows 2000 successfully Involved in designing Flow charts, Data flow Diagrams etc. for the business documents and categories using Microsoft VISIO Involved in Data modeling to develop the database design and defined primary and foreign keys using Erwin 4.0 Developed SQL queries to fetch data as per the business requirements with proper tuning techniques Created checks and constraints to maintain data integrity across the data in the database Developed SQL Queries to fetch complex data from different tables in remote databases using joins Performed Index analysis on tables and developed more efficient solutions using Clustered, Non-Clustered and online Indexes for performance boost Worked on Import & Export of data from one server to other servers using tools like Data Transformation Services (DTS) Worked on Client/Server tools like SQL Server Enterprise Manager for application performance, configuration management and Query Analyzer to improve application performance by monitoring and tuning the queries Created Views to facilitate easy user interface implementation, and Triggers on them to facilitate consistent data entry into the database Created Stored Procedures and functions to support efficient data storage and manipulation Configured various Publishers and Subscribers for Snapshot and Merge replications Generated Crystal Reports on web platform to generate reports based on viewer customization Environment: SQL Server 2000, ASP.NET1.1, C#, Microsoft Visio, DTS, Query Analyzer, Erwin, Crystal Reports, Visual Studio and Windows 2000. Confidential SQL Server Developer Responsibilities: Configured SQL Server 2000 Environment. Created and managed tables, functions, indexes using T-SQL in development and Production Environment Developed DTS packages to migrate data from flat-files, spreadsheets to other databases Created stored procedures and triggers using T-SQL in Query Analyzer Developed SQL Queries to fetch complex data from different tables in remote databases using Joins Worked on Performance tuning, and optimization of procedures and queries Created and maintained entity relationship diagrams Conducted data import and export operations using the DTS wizard Performed Database Normalization Created OLAP reports using MS Excel Tested the Performance of the database Used DTS to copy data from text file to SQL Server Created Views for Extracting Data Environment: MS SQL Server 7.0/2000, Windows 2000/NT/XP, DTS, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler and Enterprise Manager 