OBJECTIVE Looking for a challenging position as Hadoop Developer where I can use my noledge, technical and analytical skills to contribute to projects dat add value to the organization. SUMMARY Having total work experience of 9+ years in Information Technology wif skills in analysis, design, development, testing and deploying various software applications, which include Web related and windows applications wif emphasis on Object Oriented Programming. About 2 years of work experience on Big Data Analytics as Hadoop Developer. Experienced on major Hadoop ecosystem’s projects such as Pig, Hive, HBase and monitoring them wif Cloudera Manager & Hortonworks. Extensive experience in developing Pig Latin Scripts and using Hive Query Language for data analytics Hands on experience working on NoSQL databases including HBase and its integration wif Hadoop cluster Has hands on experience in writing Map Reduce jobs on Hadoop Ecosystem including Hive and Pig. Hands on experience in installing, configuring and using ecosystem components like Hadoop Map Reduce, HDFS, Pig, Hive, Sqoop. Handling and further processing schema oriented and non - schema oriented data using Pig. Read, processed and stored desperate data in parallel using Pig. Good noledge of database connectivity (JDBC) for databases like Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, My Sql and Netezza. Experienced in coding SQL, Procedures/Functions, Triggers and Packages on database (RDBMS) packages like Oracle. Developed stored procedures and queries using SQL. Worked on Agile methodology, SOA for many of the applications. Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills wif ability to interact wif individuals at all levels and can work as a part of a team as well as independently. In-depth understanding of Data Structure and Algorithms. Strong Communication skills of written, oral, interpersonal and presentation. Ability to perform at a high level, meet deadlines, adaptable to ever changing priorities. Good noledge in using job scheduling and monitoring tools like Oozie and ZooKeeper Mentor team in UNIX and open source tools/platformsrevolving around Hadoop. TECHNICAL SKILLS Hadoop/Big Data:  HDFS, Map Reduce, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, Zookeeper,Solr and Oozie. No SQL Databases:  HBase Programming Languages:  Java, PL/SQL, Pig Latin, Hive QL, Unix shell scripts Operating Systems:  UNIX, Windows, LINUX Web technologies:  JSP, JDBC Databases:  Oracle 9i/10g, Microsoft SQL Server and MySQL Java IDE:  Eclipse 3.x Tools: TOAD, SQL Developer PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Hadoop Developer Responsibilities: Developed Map-Reduce programs to parse the raw data, populate staging tables and store the refined data in partitioned tables in the EDW. Developed the Sqoop scripts in order to make the interaction between Pig and MySQL Database. Created Hive queries dat halped market analysts spot emerging trends by comparing fresh data wif EDW tables and historical metrics. Created Hive tables to store the processed results in a tabular format. Writing the script files for processing data and loading to HDFS Writing CLI commands using HDFS. Developed the UNIX shell scripts for creating the reports from Hive data. Completely involved in the requirement analysis phase. Enabled speedy reviews and first mover advantages by using Oozie to automate data loading into the Hadoop Distributed File System and PIG to pre-process the data. Provided design recommendations and thought leadership to sponsors/stakeholders dat improved review processes and resolved technical problems. Managed and reviewed Hadoop log files. Tested raw data and executed performance scripts. Involved in gathering the requirements, designing, development and testing Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop Optimized Map/Reduce Jobs to use HDFS efficiently by using various compression mechanisms Responsible for writing Hive Queries for analyzing data in Hive warehouse using Hive Query Language (HQL). Exported the result set from Hive to Netezza using Shell scripts. Environment: Hadoop 2.4, Hive 0.13,HDP 2.1, Map Reduce, Sqoop, Pig 0.10 and 0.11, JDK1.6,HDFS, Flume, Tidal, HBase, Zookeeper,Mahout, PL/SQL and SQL. Confidential, Fremonth, CA Hadoop Developer Responsibilities: Installed and configured Hadoop Map Reduce, HDFS, Developed multiple Map Reduce jobs in java for data cleaning and preprocessing. Loaded the customer profiles data, customer spending data, credit from legacy warehouses onto HDFS using Sqoop. Built data pipeline using Pig and Java Map Reduce to store onto HDFS. Used Oozie to orchestrate the map reduce jobs dat extract the data on a timely manner. Applied transformations and filtered both traffic using Pig. Used Pattern matching algorithms to recognize the customer across different sources and built risk profiles for each customer using Hive and stored the results in HBase. Performed unit testing using MRUnit. Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop Installed and configured Hive, Pig, Sqoop, Flume and Oozie on the Hadoop cluster Setup and benchmarked Hadoop/HBase clusters for internal use Developed Simple to complex Map/reduce Jobs using Hive and Pig Optimized Map/Reduce Jobs to use HDFS efficiently by using various compression mechanisms Handled importing of data from various data sources, performed transformations using Hive, MapReduce, loaded data into HDFS and Extracted the data from MySQL into HDFS using Sqoop Analyzed the data by performing Hive queries and running Pig scripts to study customer behavior Installed Oozie workflow engine to run multiple Hive and Pig jobs Exported the analyzed data to the relational databases using Sqoop for visualization and to generate reports for the BI team Responsible for writing Hive Queries for analyzing data in Hive warehouse using Hive Query Language (HQL). Provide support data analysts in running Pig and Hive queries. Importing and exporting Data from Mysql/Oracle to HiveQL using SQOOP. Importing and exporting Data from Mysql/Oracle to HDFS using SQOOP. Responsible for defining the data flow wifin Hadoop eco system and direct the team in implement them. Exported the result set from Hive to MySQL using Shell scripts. Developed HIVE queries for the analysts. Environment: Hadoop, Hive, Zookeeper, Map Reduce, Sqoop, Pig 0.10 and 0.11, JDK1.6,HDFS, Flume, Oozie, DB2, HBase, Mahout, PL/SQL and SQL. Confidential, San Ramon, CA Java/PLSQL Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for gathering and analyzing requirements and converting them into technical specifications Used Rational Rose for creating sequence and class diagrams Developed presentation layer using JSP, Java, HTML and JavaScript Designed and developed Hibernate configuration and session-per-request design pattern for making database connectivity and accessing the session for database transactions respectively. Used HQL and SQL for fetching and storing data in databases Participated in the design and development of database schema and Entity-Relationship diagrams of the backend Oracle database tables for the application Implemented web services wif Apache Axis Designed and Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers in Oracle to cater the needs for the entire application. Developed complex SQL queries for extracting data from the database Designed and built SOAP web service interfaces implemented in Java Used Apache Ant for the build process Used ClearCase for version control and ClearQuest for bug tracking Environment: Java, JDK 1.5, Servlets, Hibernate, Oracle 10g, Eclipse, Web Services (SOAP), JavaScript, HTML, XML Confidential, Waukegan, IL Java developer Responsibilities: Utilized Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project. Implemented MVC design pattern using Struts Framework. Form classes of Struts Framework to write the routing logic and to call different services. Created tile definitions, Struts-config files, validation files and resource bundles for all modules using Strutsframework. Developed web application using JSP custom tag libraries, Struts Action classes and Action.Designed Java Servlets and Objects using J2EE standards. Used JSP for presentation layer, developed high performance object/relational persistence and query service forentire applicationutilizingHibernate. Developed the XML Schema and Web services for the data maintenance and structures. Developed the application using Java Beans, Servlets. Used WebSphere Application Server and RAD to develop and deploy the application. Worked wif various Style Sheets like Cascading Style Sheets (CSS). Designed database and created tables, written the complex SQL Queries and storedprocedures as per the requirements. Environment: Java JDK 1.4, Oracle 10g, SQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, XML. Confidential Pl/Sql Developer Responsibilities: Experience on Oracle SQL, PL/SQL and Perl development Lead experience giving recommendations and direction on development strategies, conducting code reviews, and mentoring junior developers, and setting Standards and establishing Best Practices. Good RDBMS understanding Expertise in tuning Oracle SQLs Good Understanding of Data warehouse concepts Knowledge of SDLC cycles Strong experience in Technical documentation, coding and testing Expertise in problem solving through debugging, research and investigation Familiar wif Best practices, Standard Concepts. Good Communication skills Requirements analysis of the inputs. Execution of the required deliverables. Defect prevention activities. Creation of UTP, UTR. Environment: SQL* PLUS, PL/SQL Developer 9.0, SQL-Loader, SQL Navigator, SSH, DB2, Perl, Windows 2000/2003/NT/XP, UNIX, C, C++, Java, TOAD, Eclipse, Notepad ++ 5.7, HP OpenView, WinZip, Oracle 10g/9i/8i, MS Office (Visio, Excel, Word, Access), MS SQL Server 2005/2000 