SUMMARY: Over 7+ years of experience in Splunk Developer, Information Technology field with strong emphasis in Business Intelligence (BI) and Data Warehousing (DW) associated projects. Expertise in Actuate Reporting, development, deployment, management and performance tuning of Actuate reports. Parsing, Indexing, Searching concepts Hot, Warm, Cold, Frozen bucketing. Field Extraction, Using Ifx, Rex Command and Regex in configuration files. Knowledge of Extract keyword, sed, Knowledge objects, Knowledge of various search commands like stats, chart, time chart, transaction, strptime, strftime, eval, where, xyseries, table etc. Difference between event stats and stats. Experience in Operational Intelligence using Splunk. Knowledge about Splunk architecture and various components (indexer, forwarder, search head, deployment server), Heavy and Universal forwarder, License model. Used techniques to optimize searches for better performance, Search time vs Index time field extraction. And understanding of configuration files, precedence and working. Props.conf, transforms.conf, inputs.conf, outputs.conf setting up a forwarder Monitor stanza in inputs.conf Time chart attributes such as span, bins, Tag, Event types, Creating dashboards, reports using XML. Create dashboard from search, Scheduled searches o Inline search vs scheduled search in a dashboard Various types of charts Alert settings Knowledge of app creation, user and role access permissions. Creating and managing app, Create user, role, Permissions to knowledge objects. Business Activity Monitoring (BAM) concepts such as IBM Experience in database administration, design, development, testing and implementation of applications, reports and databases (MS SQL Server 2005/2008/2008 R2/2012) in production environments and BI tools (SSIS SSRS SSAS). Expertise in installing, configuring, managing, upgrading, monitoring and troubleshooting SQL Server 2012/2008 R 2/2008/2005/2000. Experience with T - SQL in writing triggers, indexes, tables, views, data integrity, user defined functions and relational database models. Expert in performing various SSIS data transformation tasks like Derived Column, Data conversion, Merge, Bulk Insert, Data Mining, Look-ups, Fuzzy Look-ups, OLEDB Command and Conditional Split. Strong background in a disciplined software development life cycle (SDLC). Excellent communication, analytical and interpersonal skills and ability to learn new concepts and supported 24/7 on call in production and development environment. Excellent Communication Skills and Presentation Skills, Comprehensive problem solving abilities. Had experience in working in different environments and also with the process flows in AGILE as well as Waterfall methodologies. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Data Warehousing: SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, SQL Server Data Tools, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, Data Transformation Services, SQL*Plus Data Analysis: Requirement Analysis, Business Analysis, detail design, data flow diagrams, data definition table, Business Rules, data modeling, Data Warehousing, system integration. Data Modeling: Dimensional Data Modeling (Star Schema, Snow-Flake, FACT-Dimensions), Conceptual Physical and Logical Data Modeling, ER Models, OLAP, OLTP concepts Databases: Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, MS SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000, MS Access. Programming: SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Plus, Unix Shell Scripting, C Environment: Win 9x/NT/2000/XP, Unix. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential  Splunk Developer Responsibilities: Collect, Analyze and document requirements. Write search queries for the respective requirements. Created Dashboards, report, scheduled searches and alerts. Integrated Service Now with Splunk to generate the Incidents from Splunk Worked on DB Connect configuration for Oracle. Created many of the proof-of-concept dashboards for IT operations, and service owners which are used to monitor application and server health. Knowledge about Splunk architecture and various components (indexer, forwarder, search head, deployment server), Heavy and Universal forwarder, License model. Parsing, Indexing, Searching concepts Hot, Warm, Cold, Frozen bucketing. Field Extraction, Using Ifx, Rex Command and Regex in configuration files. Various types of charts Alert settings Knowledge of app creation, user and role access permissions. Creating and managing app, Create user, role, Permissions to knowledge objects Configured report acceleration and summary indexing for appropriate use cases. Create dashboard from search, Scheduled searches o Inline search vs scheduled search in a dashboard Environment: SPLUNK 6.2, Windows, Oracle 11g, SQL, DBConnect app. Confidential, Austin, TX Splunk Developer Responsibilities: Provide regular support guidance to Splunk project teams on complex solution and issue resolution. Created Dashboards, report, scheduled searches and alerts. Integrated Service Now with Splunk to generate the Incidents from Splunk Worked on DB Connect configuration for Oracle, MySQL and MSSQL. Created many of the proof-of-concept dashboards for IT operations, and service owners which are used to monitor application and server health. Knowledge about Splunk architecture and various components (indexer, forwarder, search head, deployment server), Heavy and Universal forwarder, License model. Involved in standardizing Splunk forwarder deployment, configuration and maintenance across UNIX and Windows platforms. Parsing, Indexing, Searching concepts Hot, Warm, Cold, Frozen bucketing. Field Extraction, Using Ifx, Rex Command and Regex in configuration files. Various types of charts Alert settings Knowledge of app creation, user and role access permissions. Creating and managing app, Create user, role, Permissions to knowledge objects Use techniques to optimize searches for better performance, Search time vs Index time field extraction. And understanding of configuration files, precedence and working. Create dashboard from search, Scheduled searches o Inline search vs scheduled search in a dashboard Environment: SPLUNK 6.0.1, Linux, Unix, Oracle 11g, MS SQL Server 2012, SQL. Confidential, Herndon, VA SQL Server (SSIS/SSRS) Developer Responsibilities: Analyze current work flow and initiate process improvements to enhance the efficiency of existing work flow. Provide quality assurance/testing and analysis for deployed reports under UAT and post production deployment as per Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Process. CreateStored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Views, T-SQLScriptingfor complex business logic. Gathered end user requirements, developed applications and different Audit functionalities depending on the requirement acting for both system analyst and an application developer. Extensively studied the existing OLTP system(s) to create data mart and warehouse systems using the facts, dimensions and star schema. Wrote user requirement documents, created technical specs and design documents. Writing T-SQL queries (DDL and DML). Creating SQL Scripts for data loads and Upgrades for data migrations and data validations. Written complex Stored Procedures using temporary tables, table variables, error handling (TRY & CATCH) methodology for data loads. Involved in development, deployment, scheduling, and troubleshooting SSIS packages. Involved in complex SSIS package development with Microsoft BI standards and Development strategies to pull data from various data sources such as (SQL Server, Oracle, DB2, Excel, and Flat file). Worked extensively withSlowly Changing Dimensionandlookup Transformationfor implementingInserts andUpdates. Involved inReport Design and Coding for StandardTabular type reports,includingDrill downandDrill throughfunctionality and Graphical presentations such asCharts. Manage change control based on customer requirements to according to project work flow. Assist in performance assessment of the project. Environment: MS SQL Server 2012/2008R2, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS), Visual Studio 2008/2010 OLAP, XSLT, XML, C#, ASP.Net, DTS, MS Visio, Erwin. Confidential, Milwaukee, WI SQL BI Developer Responsibilities: Supported business functions through use of internally-developed and third party software solutions. Defined and developed a data migration strategy between different products and platforms. Created /Developed/maintained the stored procedures, triggers to interpret complex business rules, history data and audit analysis. Worked on optimization and tuning of SQL queries and indexes. Assisted in the application development, debugging, configuration and optimization from database perspective. Performed database design by analyzing business requirements. Assisted in troubleshooting and resolution of database issues. Data migration (import & export - BCP) from Text to SQL server. Designed database/tables and the requisite relationships, designed partition tables and partition views. Created SSIS package to get data from different sources, consolidate and merge into one single source. Used Business Intelligence Development Studio to build reports using the wizards and designers, and deploy them to Report Server. Created datasets for reports using T-SQL and stored procedures. Created various Weekly and Monthly reports showing detailed information. Created Jobs Performance report that queries sys tables and shows how long each job ran and weekly average during SSRS. Environment: MS SQL 2000/2005, SSIS, SSRS, Windows 2000 Advance Server, T-SQL, MS Excel, Oracle 10gSharePoint Portal Server 2003/2007, MS Access, Visual Studio 05. Confidential  SQL Server Developer/DBA Responsibilities: Managing databases, tables, indexes, views, stored procedures. Enforcing business rules with triggers and user defined functions, troubleshooting, and replication. Writing the Stored Procedures, checking the code for efficiency. Maintenance and Correction of Transact Sequel Server (T-SQL) Statements. Daily Monitoring of the Database Performance and network issues. Administering the MS SQL Server by Creating User Logins with appropriate roles, dropping and locking the logins, monitoring the user accounts, creation of groups, granting the privileges to users and groups. SQL Authentication Rebuilding indexes on various tables. Preparing Test Cases and performing Unit Testing. Prepared SQL Queries to validate the data in both source and target databases. Created Test cases for the mappings developed and then created integration Testing Document. Prepared the error handling document to maintain the error handling process. Review of Unit and Integration test cases. Production Implementation and Post Production Support. Environment: MS SQL Server 6.5, SQL Server 7, MS SQL Server 2000 Confidential  SQL Server Developer/DBA Responsibilities: Involved in installation and configuration of SQL server 2000 on servers. Defined various facts and dimensions in the data mart including Fact less Facts and designed the Data Mart defining Entities, Attributes and relationships between them. Implemented triggers and stored procedures and enforced business rules via checks and constraints. Fine-tuned Stored Procedures, using Execution Plan in T-SQL for better performance. Troubleshoot and minimize production down issues. Designed new job process, new database maintenance plans, DTS programs and did Performance tuning of the existing processes. Created, Scheduled maintenances and backup procedures to the database as a disaster recovery method. Monitored failed and long running MS SQL Server jobs. Monitored, tuned, and analyzed database performance and allocate server resources to achieve optimum database performance. Environment: SQL Server 2000, T-SQL, DTS, MS Visual Studio 2005 (SSIS, SSRS)Windows 2000 Server, .Net Programming. 