SUMMARY Over 8+ years of IT experience in Database Administration/Database designing and Development using MS SQL Server  7.0/  2000/2005/2008.   Extensive experience in Database development for both OLTP (Batch Processing, Online Processing) & OLAP Systems (SSRS, SSIS, SSAS) using SQL Server  2000/2005/2008.  Expert of MS SQL Server 2005 suite of Business Intelligence products SSRS, SSIS and SSAS. Expertise in scripting T - SQL (DDL, DML) queries, complex Stored Procedures, User-defined Functions, designing and implementing Database Triggers, designing and implementing Views, designing and implementing Indexes. Extensive knowledge of Tuning SQL queries, Maintaining Data Integrity and Data Consistency, Performance Tuning and Query Optimization. Strong experience in working with BCP, SSIS (DTS, DTSX) packages for Data Integration Services. Extensive knowledge of using System Variables and creating User-Defined Variables for SSIS Packages. Extensive knowledge of using Package Configuration wizard to configure SSIS packages. Expertise in creating Property Expressions, Script Tasks for SSIS packages. Extensive knowledge of Designing, Developing and deploying various kinds of reports using SSRS using relational and multidimensional data. Expertise in creating Report Models for building Ad hoc reports using SSRS. Expertise in creating various Parameterized, Cascaded, Linked, Drill-through and Drill-down reports. Experience in Troubleshooting Report Processing, Subscription, Delivery and Configuration Problems. Proficient in building Cubes, defining Referenced Relationships and creating Hierarchies in SSAS. Expertise in creating Cell Level Security in cubes using SSAS. Expertise in creating Perspectives, Partitions and Design Aggregations in cubes using SSAS. Expertise in creating Dashboard Reports to support end users using Targit and SSAS. Good experience building Star schema and Snowflake schema depending on the business data requirements. Involved in Full Life Cycle Implementation of Data Warehouse. Experience in implementing different types of Replication models like Snapshot, Merge and Transactional. Experience in Diagnosing and Troubleshooting performance issues in sql using DMV’s and DTA. Monitored and Tuned MS SQL Server databases with tools like Index Tuning Wizard, SQL Profiler, and Windows Performance Monitor for optimal Performance. Worked on administration tasks such as data loading, batch jobs, data unloading, backup & Recovery, user and application table management, upgrades, creating databases/File groups/files/Transaction logs. Excellent knowledge of Scheduling Jobs and Alerts using SQL Server Agent. Involved in optimizing code and improving efficiency in databases including re-indexing, updating statistics, recompiling stored procedures and performing other maintenance tasks. Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: C, T-SQL, JavaScript, C# RDBMS: SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008/2005, MS-Access. Front End: MS Visual Basics 6.0. Web Technologies: HTML, XML, JavaScript, PHP, Shell Scripting. Version Control: Visual Source Safe, Clear Case. SQL Server Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, Enterprise Manager, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler, Targit, Data Base Engine Tuning Advisor, Business Intelligence Development Studio, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, Data Transformation Services. Data Modeling: Erwin r7.3/7x/4.0, MS Office Visio 2003/2007 Operating System: Windows 2000, Windows Server 2003, Windows 95/98/2000 XP/Vista/7/8, Unix. Methodologies: Logical and Physical Database Design, Star Schema, Snow Flake Model, UML, Database Design and Normalization. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Raleigh NC Sr.SQL SSIS/SSRS/SSAS Developer Responsibilities: Involved in analysis, design and development of project to consume transactional data, consolidate into data warehouse and creating reports and dashboards, writing complex Stored Procedures for creating datasets for Reports and dashboards. Gathered business requirements, defined and designed the data sources, data flows, data quality analysis, worked in conjunction with the data warehouse architect on the development of logical data models. Created ETL packages using SSIS to move data from various heterogeneous data sources. Created logs for ETL load at package level and task level to log number of records processed by each package and each task in a package using SSIS. Implemented error handling and roll back process in ETL load. Technical Support to the customers for viewing and creating Adhoc reports. Configured SSIS packages using Package configuration wizard to allow packages run on different environments. Used SSIS to create ETL packages to validate, extract, transform and load data to data warehouse databases, data mart databases, and process SSAS cubes to store data to OLAP databases. Used XML and environmental variables in the package configuration for Deploying SSIS packages. Created region level security in reports to prevent users of one region from seeing data of a different region and implemented subscriptions for Reports using SSRS. Created Cross-Tabs, Drill-down and Sub-Reports using SSRS. Deployed RDLs to Report Server. Created Jobs Performance report that queries system tables to track the duration of each job and weekly-average duration using SSRS. Created reports in SSRS using different types of properties like chart controls, filters, Interactive Sorting, SQL parameters etc. Designed SSAS cube to hold summary data for Target dashboards. Created User Defined Hierarchies depending on the business requirement using SSAS. Responsible for maintaining cubes using SSAS and populate the cubes with the data. Created different measure groups and calculations using SSAS. Populated data store with CRM Data (Oracle) using Integration Services (SSIS) as catalyst for ETL process. Created Databases, Tables, Views, Indexes and Created and maintained Roles and Database users. Performed unit and system testing, troubleshooting and bug fixing in development and QA environments. Worked the Application Object Server (AOS).Set up Enterprise Portal, Configure Role Centers, Setting up and maintaining Workflow MS Dynamics AX Developer Scheduling Jobs and Alerting using SQL Server Agent Created datasets for reports using T-SQL and stored procedures Performed DBA tasks like Backup, Restoration of tables and Stored Procedures and Refreshing Databases on weekly basis. Involved in creating windows installer to install the application in SIT/UAT/Production environments. Involved in project status report updates/creation of issue items for reviews/updates of technical and transformation files on timely basis. Environment: SQL Server 2012, Windows Server 2012 R2, SQL Server Management Studio 2012, Business Intelligence Development Studio (SSIS, SSAS, SSRS), visual studio 2012, Adhoc, Performance Point Server, Microsoft Office Share Point Server, OLTP, OLAP, XML. Confidential, Fort Worth, TX Sr. SQL Server BI/ETL Developer/SSIS/SSRS/SSAS Responsibilities: Gathered requirement and designed technical document to implement the application. Designed and developed data model in SQL Server using Visio. Created Databases, Tables, Cluster/Non-Cluster Index, Unique/Check Constraints, Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers. Consolidated two databases into one which maintains customer profile information. Implemented security for customer information by encrypting sensitive data using SQL Server 2005 encryption. Used AES algorithm for encryption and decryption. Created SSIS packages to transfer data from AS400 to SQL server using different SSIS components and used configuration files and variables for production deployment. Extensively used the dataflow task to transfer data from AS400 to SQL. Developed SSIS Packages to perform Data loads from various types of sources files (EXCEL, Access, Flat files, CSVs). Involved in daily loads (FULL & INCREMENTAL) into Staging and ODS areas, troubleshooting process issues and errors. Used various Control Flow tasks in SSIS like For Each loop Containers, Sequence container etc. and data flow tasks like derived column, lookup, Fuzzy Lookups etc. Implemented Event Handlers and Error Handling in SSIS packages and notified process results to various user groups. Created several Staging Databases. Used SSIS and T-SQL stored procedures to transfer data from OLTP databases to staging area and finally transfer into data marts and performed action in XML. Identified the fact and dimension tables from the SQL server based on the requirements. Model Designer and Report Builder. Created Ad Hoc reports by building models in Report Builder using SQL 2005 Designed various reports using different reporting features such as group by, drilldowns, drill through etc. Created parameters (multi value, hidden, default etc...) for the required fields using the report designer in order to see the dropdowns in the end report. Used various types of report layout options like charts (bars, lines, pie etc...), images, graphs, sub reports, hyperlinks etc to make them more attractive and understandable. Created new reports from the scratch for new requirements and modified some of the existing reports using SSRS. Provided documentation of reports and the development process in order to support the system Scheduled the reports to refresh and run on daily, weekly and monthly basis in the report manager and SharePoint Created Scorecards based on Key Performance Indicators(KPI’s), and generate KPI Score-card dashboard and pivot tables/charts for decision making, data mining Created and debugged data connections, data sources and Data Source Views.. Deployed and uploaded the SSRS reports to SharePoint Server for the end users to look at them. Environment: Windows 7 Enterprise, .NET Framework, Management Studio 2008 R2, MS Excel, Microsoft SQL Server 2008R2, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, T-SQL,TOAD, Visual Studio 2010, PL/SQL, MS Access,EXCEL, SQLServer Profiler, C#. Confidential, San Jose, CA SQL Server/ BI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the support the specific needs of hedge funds, fund-of-funds and private equity funds and registered investment products. Knowledge in designing and developing Data Warehouses, Data marts and Business Intelligence using multi-dimensional models such as Star Schemas and Snow Flake Schema for developing Cubes using MDX. Provided SQL Server Database Administration and Development at Wells Fargo in support of a financial distributed and replicated storage system with a multi terabyte data store, installation of Oracle Financial accounting package, and evaluation of SQL Server 2000. Involved in design, development and implementation of SSIS, SSRS and SSAS. Developed SQL SSIS Packages to extract data from various data sources such as Excel and flat files into SQL server 2005 using different transformations like derived column, sort, and aggregate transformations. Worked on the Reinsurance vendor product SunGard iWork’s Proceeds 8.5.6 for creating the Reinsurance contracts. Integrated Database Maintenance jobs to perform Full, differential & transaction log Backups and scheduled them with the SQL Server agent job scheduler. Tuned the database to perform efficiently by managing databases using the options to grow or shrink database files and monitor the size of the transaction log. Tuned the performance of SQL queries and Stored procedures using SQL Profiler. Involved in database and log backups & restoration, backup strategies, scheduling. Worked on upgrading/changing all the database objects from 2000 to make them compatible to the schema changes in 2005. Created SQL scripts to load the custom data into Development, Test and production Instances using Import/Export. Created scripts to create custom Tables and Views. Performed backup/restore, database objects such as tables, procedures, triggers, constraints, indexes and views. Used SQL profiler to view indexes performance to mostly eliminate table scan. Used highly complex TSQL Queries and SQL Scripts to perform efficient data load based on complex Business rules. Extensively used TSQL to manipulate and architect to produce results for users. Used multiple join statements to retrieve data from multiple tables. Created stored procedures, views, triggers, user defined functions to in corporate the flow of business and called various stored procedures from DTS to make the flow of DTS effective. Performed efficient tuning of SQL source queries for data load/ Usage of stored procedures for performance. Created various DTS packages for data transfer and migration. Designed and implemented parameterized reports, Drill down reports for Wells Fargo Mortgage Loan organization. Managing various mortgage processes across different reports and provided primary Admin and production support for these reports. Developed SQL mortgage reports using SSRS. Developed optimal stored procedures and queries to create data sets for reports. Designed Drill through Ad-hoc Reports. Developed Ad-hoc reports using Crystal Reports. Developed Star schema using SSAS cubes. Created parallel period, filter, ancestors and cross join MDX queries. Developed Aggregations, partitions and calculated members for cube as per business requirements. Involved in analyzing and designing disaster recovery / replication strategies with business managers to meet the business requirements. Designed Dimensional Modeling using SSAS packages for End-User. Created Hierarchies in Dimensional Modeling. Replication servers and transactional replication between production and standby server for disaster recovery. Responsible for testing to optimize the procedures and triggers to be used in production. Involved in project planning also schedule for database module with project managers. Environment: MS SQL Server (SSAS/SSIS/SSRS) 2008 R2, Management Studio 2008 R2, Query Analyzer, MS SQL Server 2008R2, SSIS, SSRS, T-SQL, Crystal Reports 7/8, Windows Server 2008R2, VB.NET, MS Excel, and MS Office. Confidential, Houston, TX SQL SSRS/SSIS/SSAS Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for creating Databases, Tables, Cluster/Non-Cluster Index, Unique/Check Constraints Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Rules and Defaults. Creating functions and developing procedures for implementing application functionality at the database side for performance improvement. Creating and Modifying T-SQL stored procedures/triggers for validating the integrity of the data. Created packages in both DTS and SSIS. Created packages and scheduled it to get data from OLTP. Created ETL package for data conversion using various transformations tasks. Creation of New NT Logins and granting privileges to users/Groups and objects. Experience in building star schema and snowflake schema depending on the business data requirement. Used DBCC commands to check physical and logical consistency of the databases and Rebuild indexes. Backup and recovery of Master, MSDB and Application databases Monitor NT Event log for system, application errors, available disk space, Backup registry, keep emergency repair disk as current Rebuilding Indexes and Tables as part of performance tuning exercise Monitor SQL Error Logs /Schedule Tasks/database activity/eliminate Blocking & deadlocks /user counts and connections/locks etc. Scheduling Jobs and Alerting using SQL Server Agent Developed custom reports using SSRS/SQL Server BI studio. Created custom and Ad hoc reports using SSRS. Created reports that call Sub reports in SSRS. Created datasets for reports using T-SQL and stored procedures Involved in writing MDX queries. Created Cubes from which data can be retrieved rapidly by enterprise information consumers Created different Data Layouts for the Business users depending on the requirement and providing them different Drill Down capabilities using ProClarity. Responsible for Query optimization and Performance tuning. Used NT Performance monitor to monitor CPU & Memory usage and SQL Server Profiler to monitor and record database activities of particular users, applications Performing query plans and making sure each and every query is using appropriate useful indexes. Used SQL Profiler for Monitoring memory, processor, Disk I/O, SQL Queries. Environment: SQL Server 2008R2 Enterprise Edition, SSIS, SSRS,.NET Framework, C#, ASP.NET, XML, T-SQL, MS SQL Server Management Studio 2008, VisualStudio.NET IDE, Windows 2000 Advance Server, ASP, XML, T-SQL, MS Excel, MS Access, Visual Studio 05. Confidential SQL Server Developer/DBA Responsibilities: Involved in User Requirement Gathering and Technical Specification Documentation. Involved in Designing of the logical and physical database Created new database objects like Procedures, Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes and Views using T-SQL in Development and Production environment for SQL Server 2000. Wrote T-SQL procedures to generate DML scripts that modified database objects dynamically based on user inputs. Interacting with the users and troubleshooting the problems involved with the development of stored procedures, triggers and problems related to the privileges. Developed and implemented database and coding standards, improving performance and maintainability of corporate databases. Fine-tuned Procedures, Functions and Triggers for optimum performance. Creating transactional and merge replication on different servers. Performance tuning at Database level, T-SQL level and operating system level. Trouble shooting Problems by using SQL server profiler. Creating DTS packages to maintain central repository by extensively using different SQL2000 DTS tasks. Created the DTS interfaces to vendors in which records were loaded daily, also to other data resources such as Excel, Access, and flat file, XML in order to create and maintain a centralized data warehouse. Plan and implement data roll-up from live site to data warehouse. Created reports using Crystal Reports using imported data sources. Generated various reports using Crystal Reports. Resolving the bugs in the database. Assisted with various ad hoc query requests. Provided back-end support for functional testing and performance testing. Environment: SQL Server 2005 Enterprise Edition, SSIS, SSRS, MS .NET Frame Work, ASP.NET, T-SQL, Access 2000 & Windows 2K platform ADO.NET, MS Project. Confidential SQL Server Developer/DBA Responsibilities: Experience in support and management of databases, systems, applications and Application Development. Experience in Implementation of Production environment Hardware requirements and application support. Worked extensively on installation, upgrade and configuration of MS SQL Server 2005 and MS SQL Server 2000 databases/ servers. Implementation of Point in time Backup and recovery plans of all databases and maintain documentation. Schedule the Administrative Tasks (like database integrity checks and maintenance plans). Extensive exposure to creation of databases, objects, stored procedures, triggers, security, DTS (i.e. Import and Export), BCP, Transact-SQL, and SQL Server Agent and SQL Server profiler. Experience in planning and implementing the Replication of MS SQL Server 2000 Databases and databases Backup recovery strategy. Implemented disaster recovery for SQL Server Production Database as Fail-Over or Standby servers. Used Log Shipping Technique for warm backup solution for MS SQL Server databases. Very good experience in the maintaining production servers, monitoring performance issues, trouble shooting and solving production issues. Experience on working with BRP (Business recovery plans) and EPP exercises (Emergency prepared plans) Creation and maintenance of Users security permissions and Migrating the entire database objects from one server to another server and database to another database. Exposure in analysis services. Environment: MS SQL Server 2000/2005, SSIS, SSRS, T-SQL, JavaScript, ASP, Microsoft Office, Windows 2003/XP, .NET Framework, Microsoft Visual Studio 2005. 