SUMMARY Over 6 years of IT experience in design, development, tuning and maintenance of client/server side of SQL Server 2012/2008R2/2008/2005 in various phases of software development life cycle. Expert in implementing Business Intelligence Solutions for Enterprise Decision support systems using Microsoft suite of products like SSIS, SSRS and SSAS. Data modelling experience in high activity normalized OLTP systems and analytical highly useable de - normalized OLAP systems, staging and Data art. Experienced in using Power BI tools for highly interactive ad-hoc reporting needs. Expert in creating different formats of reports for internal and external reporting purposes including drill down and drill through based on needs of granularity using SSRS 2005/2008/2012. Experienced in developing and deploying SSAS cubes and implementing information in internal dashboards and scorecards. Working knowledge of MDX queries. Experienced in creating and populating data warehouses OLTP data with various SSIS ETL packages with transformations, containers, variables, configurations and schedules. Debugging knowledge with loggers and event handlers. Experience in working with .NET framework and SharePoint to collaborate and share reports. Experienced in performance testing and query optimization for faster data access. Experience in creating jobs, SQL Mail Agent, Alerts and schedule DTS/SSIS Packages. Well versed with Kimball’s approach in OLAP development as per business needs. Skilled at solving challenges in a methodical manner and analyzing current issues to envision creative solutions. Demonstrate intellectual curiosity thus seamlessly learn new technology. Capable of handling responsibilities independently as well as a proactive team member. Strong Analytical skills and ability to work cross functionally. TECHNICAL SKILLS RDBMS:  MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012, MySQL, Oracle 9i/10g Operating System: Windows 2000/2003, Linux, HP-UNIX .NET Technologies:  ASP.net, C#, VB.net Database Tools:  SQL Profiler, SQL Query Analyzer, Index Analyzer, DTS Import/Export, SSRS, SSIS, SSAS, Backup Server, Replication server, OLAP Services, SQL, Agents, SQL Alerts, SQL Jobs, Replication tools, Data Visualization (Composite tool). Programming Languages:  C, C++, Java Web Technologies:  HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, VB Script, XML, SOAP, IIS Database Access Technology:  ADO.NET, DTS Design and Development:  Visual Studio 2008/2005/2003, Visual Studio 6.0 Reports:  SSRS, Crystal Reports, Cognos Reporting tool, Business Objects. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Framingham, MA MS SQL Server SSAS/SSRS/SSIS BI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in designing multidimensional OLAP cubes in SSAS from the existing data warehouse for various sales, marketing and buying divisions. Deployed SSAS cubes from fact and dimensions with Aggregations, KPI, Measures, hierarchies, and attributes. Deployed cubes and processed reports to SSRS in various formats which were further incorporated in the SharePoint with security measures. Created different financial statements reports to update on the management dashboard and 10K to update weekly and drilled down by year, quarters and months. Managed subscriptions, snapshots and security in the report manager.. Worked on the team to build an executive dashboard with embedded filters, scorecard, charts and KPIs. Used power BI tools in Excel to spot favorable, unfavorable trends and outliers. Generated, enhanced and maintained ad-hoc using Report Builder 3.0. Generated parameterized queries for generating tabular reports using global variables, expressions, functions, and stored procedures using SSRS. Works closely with the Data Warehouse development staff to develop new databases to support reporting needs and to identify and resolve database performance problems. Created SSIS packages to import data from Excel, flat files and other OLEDB sources. Used Power BI tools such as Power pivot, Power Map, Power Pivot in Excel 2013 For Data Mining analytics to spot trends and patterns and creating ad-hoc reports for decision making. Environment: MS SQL Server 2012, SSRS, SSAS, Microsoft Access, Visual Studio, Performance point server, Excel Power BI, SharePoint, Oracle 11g, Google Web Analytics Confidential, Pittsburgh, PA MS SQL Server /SSRS /SSIS/ Server Developer Responsibilities: Involved in planning, defining and designing data warehouse to bring in data from various data sources based on business requirements and provided documentation. Conceptual, logical and physical design of the model. Created star and snowflake schema model using fact and dimension tables based on data granularity requirements. Created additive, semi additive and non-additive facts with conformed and non-conformed dimensions, shared dimension, degenerated dimensions and slowly changing dimensions. Created various Extraction Transformation and Loading (ETL) packages to cleanse the data to maintain uniformity and maintain coherent data as well as populate the data from various source systems feeds using SSIS 2008 R2. Used various transformations like Merge, Merge join, Union all, lookup, Derived column, fuzzy lookup, multicast, conditional split transformations to maintain data consistency. Responsible for coding SSIS processes to import data into the Data Warehouse from Excel spreadsheets, Flat Files and OLEDB Sources. Created mappings/workflows to extract and Transform data from Oracle/Access/Excel Sheets using SQL Server SSIS. Debugged packages using Precedence Break Points, Check Points, and viewers. Migration and Metadata Management: Created stored procedures, Triggers, User-defined Functions, Views for both Online and Batch requests handling business logic and functionality of various modules. Have used BCP, BULK INSERT to transfer data from and to SQL server database Expert in creating different formats of reports for internal and external reporting purposes and deploy them in Performance Point Server as well as SharePoint. Experienced in creating and populating data warehouses OLTP data with various transformations, containers, variables, configurations and schedules. Debugging knowledge with loggers and event handlers. Environment: MS SQL SERVER 2012/2008 R2/2000, SQL Server 2012, SSIS, SSRS, Microsoft Visual Studio 2008, MS SQL Profiler, Microsoft Visio, MS Office 2010, Windows NT/2008,Erwin 4.0, MS Outlook, FTP, TSQL, Windows 2008 Confidential, Saint Louis, MO MS SQL Server Developer/ SSIS /SSRS Developer Responsibilities: Imported data from various sources into a staging area, merges the data into the OLTP data model, and presents it to all levels of users. Worked with migration solutions to SQL Server from MySQL, Oracle and DB2 using SQL Migration Assistant. Responsible for SSIS activities to move data from text files to SQL Server. Scheduled SSIS Packages on weekly Basis using SQL Server Agent. Extensively involved in knowledge transfer for the documentation team for the development activities carried out by team. Generated Daily, Weekly, and Monthly Reports as per the customer requirements using subscriptions and Created Tabular Reports, Cross Tab Reports, Sub Reports. Created AD-Hoc reports using Report Builder and maintained Report Manager for SSRS. Extensively involved in carrying out the Unit testing of the applications and tuning of complex procedures. Involved in Fine tuning of database objects using indexes and server to ensure efficient data retrieval. Involved with Installation, Upgrade and Troubleshooting of MS SQL Server 2008 Created Complex Stored Procedure, Triggers, and Cursors, Tables, Views and other T-SQL JOIN techniques. Involved in Planning, development, and testing of disaster recovery strategies and procedures to restore the production environment to a production state. Environment: Windows 2008 Advanced Server, SQL Server 2008, MS Outlook, FTP, TSQL, SQL Migration Assistant for Oracle, My SQL andDB2. Confidential, Saint Louis, MO MS SQL Server DBA/SSIS/SSRS Responsibilities: Created SSIS Packages to import and export data from Excel Spreadsheets, Text files and CSV files. Worked as a developer in creating complex Stored Procedures, SSIS packages, triggers, tables, and views and other SQL joins and statements for applications. Created SSIS packages to migrate data from Oracle DB to SQL Server 2008. Migrated Data (Import & Export using BCP) from text to SQL Server 2005. Created Cross-Tab, Drill-down, Drill-down and Sub-Report using and linked reports using SQL SERVER Reporting Services. Debugging reports and deploying reports and report server configuration for automation. Configured report server for schedules and email subscriptions for managers. Involved in database backup, recovery procedures and Planned back up strategy for disaster recovery Responsible for log backups and restoration Worked with Dynamic Management Views (DMV) for improving query performance. Analyzed the existing application programs and tuned SQL queries using Execution plan, Query Analyzer, SQL Profiler and database Engine tuning Advisor. Proficient with SQL server agent for scheduling jobs, SQL profiler for database tuning Created and used tables, views, indexes, stored procedures, triggers, used joins to retrieve data from tables Designed and implemented stored procedures and triggers for automating tasks. Maintained the table performance by following the tuning tips like normalization, creating indexes and collect statistics. Environment: MS SQL Server 2005/2008, MS SQL Server Reporting Services 2005, Windows 2003 server. Confidential, Frisco, TX MS SQL Server developer Responsibilities: Worked on integration Packages Import/Export for transferring data from Data migration (import & export/BCP) from Text files/Access to SQL Server 2000. Optimized customer billing portal to access information to link up with the customer service portal. Generated ad-hoc reports from SQL server using MS-Excel and SSRS. Created Business-Crucial stored procedures and functions to support the front end Web application. Optimized existing store procedures for efficient data storage and retrieval using T-SQL. Worked on testing and optimization using built in diagnostic tools such as SQL Profiler, Index Tuning and database tuning advisory feature Environment: MS SQL Server 2000, DTS 2000, ER-Win, T-SQL, Excel, Access and Windows NT. 