SUMMARY: Around 8 Years of experience in Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance of Object Oriented Programming Concepts (OOPS), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based applications, Web Based and Windows applications using Client - Server and N-tier Architectures, Maintenance of applications based on windows/web in various domains. Strong experience in developing Web Applications using Visual Studio /, .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0 using ASP.NET, C#.NET, WCF, Silverlight, ADO .NET, SQL Server 2008 r, SSRS, AJAX. Expert in developing large scale applications using .NET framework in the areas that require Performance, Scalability, Security, and Extensibility. Experienced in creating rich User Interface on the web using HTML 5.0, XAML, DHTML, Master Pages, CSS, Ajax, JavaScript and JQuery. Did extensive Javascript and JQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website. Strong noledge of design patterns and implements different design patterns including MVVM for WPF Application. Worked on N-Tier Architectures, Design Patterns like MVC (Model View Controller), MVP (Model View Presenter) on the applications. Create and establish an encrypted link between a web server and a browser by using Secure Sockets Layer (SSL). Good expertise in the development of SQL queries, Tables, Stored procedures, triggers, views user functions using T-SQL Developed Data Access Layer (DAL), Business Logic layer (BLL) also in implementing Business Processes. Extensive .NET experience using C# and Extensive Expertise in working with MVC 5.0/4.0/3.0, Microsoft .Net Framework ( 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0 /1.0 ) developing Win Forms, Web Services, Win Services, Web Pages using ASP.Net, VB.Net, ADO.NET, Visual Studio (2013,2010,2008,2005), IIS, VBScript, JavaScript, HTML and Crystal Reports.. Experienced in Implementing WCF services and consuming using different protocols and implementing features. Experience in Twitter Bootstrap framework for developing rich UI. Experience in Data accessing including using Data Adapter, Data Reader and Data Set in ADO.NET. Experience in ImplementingLanguage-Integrated Query(LINQ)and retrieve data from different data sources (LINQ to Objects, LINQ to XML, and LINQ to SQL). Good noledge over .Net framework 3.5 concepts likeLambda expressions, LINQ,Extension methodsetc. Expertise in database applications involving complex Database Queries, stored procedures, triggers, (Data Transformation Services) DTS packages, design and implementation with MS SQL Server 2012/2010/2008 , Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g and Microsoft Access. Hands on experience in working with development of Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Queries, Indexes, Triggers and Views using SQL Server 2012/2008/2005 and T-SQL. Prepared Technical design document, Use cases, Test cases and User manuals for various projects and good at Bug fixing, Code reviews, and Unit & System testing. Extensive expertise in generating reports using tools like Crystal Report, SSRS, and Microsoft Project. Extensively worked with Agile and Scrum methodologies. Excellent problem solving and analytical skills, highly motivated and a quick learner. Possess excellent communication skills, good team member and leadership qualities. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Programming Languages:  C, C#, ASP.Net, PL/SQL, T-SQL, VB.Net .Net Technologies:  .Net Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0 , WebForms, WinForms, MVVM, ASP.NET 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0 /1.x ADO.Net, 3.5/3.0/2.0, Web Services, and, LINQ, Entity Framework 4.0, VSTS, MVC 3.0/4.0 Web Development:  HTML, HTML5, DHTML, Java Script, Ajax, CSS, Bootstrap, XML Schema, XSLT, JQuery, IIS(4.0/5.0/6.0), Sitecore CMS 7.1,Kendo UI. Databases:  MS SQL Server 2012/2010/2008 , Oracle 11g/10g/9i, MS Access 2010/2007/2003/ COM/DCOM Reporting Tools:  SSRS, Crystal Reports Middleware:  WCF, Web API services Operating Systems:  Windows 2007/98/2000/ XP, Unix Application Packages:  MS Office, MS Outlook (Microsoft Office Suite) PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, NY Sr .NET Developer Responsibilities: Involved with the client team to design and develop the application according to the client requirements using WCF, SOA, and ASP.NET with the business logic implemented using C#. Used object oriented programming to achieve the functionality for the application. Responsible for developing the full stack (front-end development, application logic, services, data persistence) as well as server setup and maintenance Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request and invoke the requested actions on the mode. Designed, developed, and customized several web pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Angular js, Java Script and VB.NET and ASP.NET 4.5. Developed and implemented additional items and receipt modules using MVVM pattern. Consistently used MVVM pattern in all screen development Writing server side scripting using VB.NET. Used Entity Framework to connect SQL Server database with Data Access Layer. Developed many new user interface components for different modules using Kendo UI that include Asynchronous Upload, Grid, Dropdown list, Multi Select, Calendar, Tree List Wrote WPF code and designed GUI using XAML, displayed data in form, created user controls, consumed data services in WPF Used n-Hibernate, WPF to communicate between DAL and other business components. Used Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) for communicating with other application and components. Used Restful web Services like Get, Put, Post and Delete for the existing services in the project. Implemented form validation using Validation controls using both Custom validation and JavaScript was written for Client side validations. Strong experience in using Configuration Management, Building Schedule using TFS and VSS. Developed ASP.NET Web forms, unit tested business layer and data access layer using C#, Application blocks, design patterns and .NET Enterprise services Created complex stored procedures and SQL Statements for generating Ad-hoc Reports to show various kinds of reports by using SSRS Developed and consumed WCF service. Created XML Data Schema, created Data contract, Service Contract and operation contract, defined endpoints, created proxy classes and consumed WCF Service. Experience with Test-Driven Development (TDD) like N-Unit testing frameworks. Used SSL for Testing and implemented in web application. Used AJAX Controls to avoid flickering while post back and creating interactive pages. Developed GUI using MVC 5 Razor Views and JQuery Ajax functionality. Worked on Twitter Bootstrap framework to design single page applications. Developed Web API services to communicate with the Data Access Layer. Developed various Data Service classes to connect and manipulate data using Entity Framework and C#.NET. Used LINQ to do CRUD operations on SQL Server to query database using Lambda Expression and Query Expressions. Its web based N-Tier application developed using SQL Server as Data Repository Tier, Web API Services (Data Access Layer) as Business Service Tier and MVC as Presentation Tier. Worked on creating tables, views, triggers, constraints, Stored Procedures, Functions, and Packages using SQL Server based on the documented user requirements. Used BizTalk to interoperate different applications in different environments using HTTP and SMTP protocols Used Grid View control extensively for data display, dynamic generation of rows, and user input inside template columns. Developed ASP pages to communicate with COM components as middle tier and MS SQL Server as database tier. Involved in creating, deploying and managing reports using SSRS. Responsible for Database design, and creating of Stored Procedures, triggers to perform the Data retrieval from multiple tables using T-SQL Database Used ADO.NET components for data querying, storage, and manipulation into the SQL server database. Implemented source control and version control using Team Foundation Server. Involved in creating, deploying and managing reports using Crystal Reports. Prepared weekly status reports /monthly status reports code review. Environment: ASP.NET 4.5, VB.NET, MVC 4.5, WCF,WPF, ADO.NET, C#.NET, .Net Framework 4.5, VS 2013, MVVM, Web Forms, XML,SOAP,WSDL, TDD, SQL Server Management Studio, AJAX, Bootstrap, Windows XP, T-Sql, HTML 4.0, Java Script, PI, DHTML,HTTP, AngularJS, CSS, Web API Services, Crystal Reports and TFS, SSRS. Confidential, Philadelphia, PA Sr.Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in entire stage of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Developed entire MVC .Net base framework for dis project Using Razor. Created rich User Interface on the web using HTML, JQuery, CSS and JavaScript. Used Jquery and JavaScript for client side validations. Extensively used Twitter Bootstrap Framework for developing rich UI. Used Visual Source Safe for the purpose of Version Control and Source Code maintenance needs. Followed Agile Scrum methodologies and TDD (Test Driven Development) for developing the application Have designed and developed web application for the users to login and view the data, ASP.Net is used for the page design and coding was done using VB.Net and C#. Developed Restful service using WCF framework and used Angular Jsfor getting data. UsedJQuery and JavaScriptto reduce the turnaround time of retrieving data from the data base. UsedElmahError Logging Modules and Handlers andLog4NETfor logging. Created and implemented custom ASPX pages to SharePoint sites using SharePoint Features. Used nHibernate, WPF to communicate between DAL and other business components. Wrote Store Procedures, and SQL User Defined functions for fetching Transaction details, Survey Details, Customer details and Product Configuration data. Used MVVM Light messenger for communication between View Models. Responsible for creating complex SSRS Reports based on client specifications. Responsible for developing the full stack (from the JavaScript, Application Services, Database, and Build Scripts) Created T-SQL Store Procedures, Views and User Defined Functions for fetching relevant data to UI Generated Flatten WSDL’s from the d WSDL’s using XML, Xpath and XSL Transformation. Designed and developed WCF Web Services and configured our WCF Services with appropriate endpoints for consuming them in the web application. Implemented Factory design pattern. Extensively used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for Version Control and backup and controlling the source code. Deployed applications into test and production environments by using web server (IIS). Used LINQ to SQL to query database and made use of LINQ to objects and Lambda expression. Used SQL Server Management Studio extensively for querying the database for additions and modifications. Actively used cursors, functions and calling procedures from one package to another package and created dynamic sql statements in Oracle using PL/SQL. Implemented source control and version control using Sitecore Content Management System. Implemented page level error handling using Custom Error pages and Error logs. Created packages to write procedures in Oracle. Involved in the Design of the Application using ASP.Net, WCF, Entity Framework, Linq to SQL Used SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) for migrating data from different sources like MS Excel, CSV, Flat File, sources, Oracle database to SQL Server database. Involved in Unit Testing, Integration Testing and successful integration of modules and multiple layers in the system. Actively involved in Bug Fixing during the build and deployment process and debugging. Responsible to provide system support once the code is migrated to Test, QA or Production environments. Environment: ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, MVC 4.0, MVVM, Object Oriented Methodologies, Visual Studio 2012, T-Sql, ADO.Net, SQL Server 2012, TDD, XML,WSDL, ELMAH, ADO.NET, WCF, WPF, SSIS, SSRS, .NET Framework 4.5, HTML,IIS, JQuery, JavaScript,PI, Bootstrap, Sitecore CMS 7.1, Visual Source Safe 7.0, LINQ, Entity Framework. Confidential, Little Rock, AR Sr.Net Developer Responsibilities: Went through the total project development life cycle and have a clear understanding of various tiers as the project was a multi-tier application. Coordinated with various groups of the client to gather business and system requirements. Involved in application design based on MVC 3, Factory Design Pattern and OOPS. Active Developer of the core developing Team for the Banking Software using C#.Net, SQL Server with MVC Pattern. Used JavaScript for client side validations. Used XAML styling for WPF applications throughout various modules. Writing server side scripting using VB.NET. Manage the back-end connection to Microsoft SQL as the data source using ADO.Net and write SQL queries, stored procedures and triggers to manage data. Created clustered and non-clustered index to aid faster retrieval of data. Utilized Entity Framework technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ Statements, views, User Defined Functions, Stored Procedures for creating/inserting/updating/deleting the data into the relational tables. Developed Web Service for retrieving Employee Data (based on XML, WSDL, and SOAP). Worked extensively on the UI, created views by utilizing MVC3, and created view models. Consumed Web Services using WCF for online transactions using C# and exposed them through SOAP and HTTP. Reviewed requirements and integrated Site core CMS with SharePoint and other systems Implemented Singleton design pattern. Involved in creating, deploying and managing reports using SSRS. Created T-SQL and PL/SQL Store Procedures, Views and User Defined Functions for fetching relevant data to UI for different VP Reports and Divisional Reports. Have done data model principles, fit-gap analysis, prototyping, development, implementation, maintenance and support during the product design and development. Used VSS for version control during development. Environment: C#, ASP.Net 3.5, VB.NET, MVC 3.0, ADO.NET, WCF, WPF, LINQ, UML, SQL Server 2008, JavaScript, T-SQL, PL/SQL, SOA, Crystal Reports, Visual Source Safe, SSRS, SSIS, XAML, XSLT, N-unit testing, Visual Studio 2010. Confidential, Miami, FL  .Net Developer Responsibilities: Actively participated in discussions with business groups during the requirements gathering. Responsible for the development using ASP.NET and C# as the server side coding language and some designing issues and implementation. Used ASP.NET MVC to build the web pages. Experience with Test-Driven Development (TDD) like N-Unit testing frameworks. Used ASP.NET autantication using Windows Autantication. Used AJAX Library, CSS, JavaScript and web controls to present data to users. Used MVC design pattern in checking Log In credentials and displaying the necessary components and data to the particular user. Used Microsoft Entity Framework for the Data Access Layer for the ASP.NET MVC 3 application. Developed several User controls that assist in the reusability of the modules. Developed the middle tier architecture for implementing various business rules. Developed secured web services using .Net, C#, XML/SOAP. Used SSIS to fetch the data for daily, weekly, hourly and monthly imports. Responsible for creating complex SSRS Reports based on client specifications. Developed several validations pertaining to the business rules and client requirements. Successfully coordinated with different groups across different geographic locations. Created several controls and bound data using ADO.NET and C# to access SQL Server 2008 database. Used ADO.NET objects like Data Readers, Data Adapters, Data Views and Datasets extensively for database interaction. Created several Grid views and Stored Procedures that enable the users to view the statistical data and historical data and can filter the data accordingly. Wrote Complex SQL statements, Stored Procedures and Views. Performed Unit testing. Environment: .Net Framework 3.5, C#, ASP.NET, MVC 3.0, ADO.NET, XML,SOAP, JavaScript, SSRS, SSIS, Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2008, VSS. Confidential  .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Design and Development stages of the Software Development Life Cycle for the project. Involved in designing and developing the User Interface in ASP.NET. Involved in enhancing and implementing new rules into the business logic using C#. Followed 3-Tier Application Architecture to ensure flexible and reusability of the application. Created Master Pages to define unified layout for Application. Implemented AJAX into the user interface to improve the user interaction. Used ASP.NET Input Validation controls and JavaScript to perform client side validation. Effectively consumed XML Web Services to retrieve Pending Claims. Written Complex Queries and Stored Procedures to validate the data and execute the desired results. Involved in automated Email generation system using SMTP server. Developed various web forms using ASP. Added and modified user profiles, maintaining user feedbacks using encrypt and decrypt methods. Developed ActiveX components and developed complex DLLs using C# to enhance and improve the system functionality. Used HTML, DHTML for generating interactive screens. Good experience in developing components. Used COM to manage transactions and object pooling to improve the performance. Used ADO to interact with the database by using appropriate cursors and lock types. Involved in unit testing, integration testing and system testing. Created Triggers at the database level to automate database activities. Used MS SQL Server as the database and ADO.NET for database connectivity. Responsible for implementing test cases using NUnit. Used Visual Source Safe for source control. Environment: C#, VisualStudio2008, ASP.Net Framework, ADO.NET, HTML, XML, SMTP Server, AJAX Toolkit, MS SQL Server, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, NUnit. Confidential  .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Software Development Life Cycle starting from requirements gathering and performed object oriented analysis and design using UML. Developed several UI pages in ASP.NET with server side validations using C# in Visual Studio.NET. Migrated pages from Classic ASP to ASP.Net. Developing and designing custom Web Controls and User Controls providing code reusability to inherit complex UI. Extensively worked on AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, XHTML, XSL and XSLT to improve user experience, usability and better look and feel to the web application. Used Data readers, Data Objects such as Datasets and LINQ. Used ADO.NET for extracting and manipulation of data from SQL database. Developed T-SQL Stored Procedures, Triggers and functions in SQLServer2005. Extensively worked with Insurance plans. Involved in Production Deployment and Production support of various modules. Followed Agile Methodology - Extreme Programming. Development of unit test cases and carrying out unit testing. Environment: Visual Studio 2005, ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server 2005, T-SQL, ADO.NET, AJAX, XSL, XSLT, Web Services, JavaScript, NUnit, TFS, MS Visio, Windows XP 