SUMMARY: Total 7+ years of extensive experience with all phases of software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), including Analysis, design, Development and Teasing of Client - server and Web-based n-tier Architecture for windows and web applications. Extensive experience in .Net using C#, ASP.NET, ADO, Web Forms and Web Controls. Excellent experience in dealing with Assemblies, User Controls and custom controls Expertise in designing ASP.NET based Graphical User interfaces with CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, DHTML and HTML. Extensive experience of designing and developing software applications with teh .NET Framework … ASP.NET, ADO.NET, AJAX, LINQ, WCF, CSS, Web Services. Experience in designing and branding Mater Pages utilizing Server Controls, User Controls, Data Grid control, Form validation controls, custom controls and CSS. Strong experience in data retrieval and manipulation using ADO.NET data objects such as Dataset, Data reader, Data list, Data Adaptor. Responsible for designing Presentation Tier (web pages) using teh concepts such as Master Pages, Themes, Skins, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript and worked with ASP.NET custom controls. Good exposures in SharePoint … Workflow and Web part developments. Worked with branding teh SharePoint sites. Experience in using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) Experience in creating and consuming web Services. Good Exposure in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) programming and .Net Architecture and ASP.Net MVC, MVP, MVVM Patterns Proficient working with Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and Views on SQL Server and using Pl/SQL. Experience in generating reports using SQL Server Reporting services (SSRS) and crystal Report. Experience in using Web Services, XML and XML schema. Experience in working with Visual Studio … SQL Server … Experience in working with SQL Server integration services (SSIS) and Team Foundation Server(TFS) Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of teh application. Quick learner, exceptional problem-solving and troubleshooting capabilities. Excellent team player with god communication and interpersonal skills. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Senior Net Developer Confidential, Irving, TX Responsibilities: Involved in design, coding, and Integration. Developed Business logic components in C#, LINQ to Objects and Data Access Layer components using DLINQ and C# for web module. Developed ASP.NET pages using Ajax, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and JQuery. Implemented Integration of third party services using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF). Developed Client side validations in ASP.Net pages using JavaScript and teh ASP.NET validation controls. Used AJAX technology to enhance teh application performance. Created Stored Procedures and User Defined Functions in SQL Server 2008 database. Developed reports using SQL Server 2008 Reporting Services (SSRS) that calculate teh monthly average metrics. Designed and developed web pages using ASP.NET, and C#.NET. NUNIT developer testing, following extreme programming methodology. Involving in complete support of teh application for regular change requests and enhancements. Responds appropriately to emergency technical support situations and produces quick and effective solutions to business problems. Environment: Visual studio.Net 2010, ASP.NET 4.0, C#.NET, WCF, WCF, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, HTML IIS 7.0, SQL Server 2008, TFS, NUnit, Agile. Sr.NET Developer Confidential, San Antonio, TX Responsibilities: Involved in analyzing designing of UI/Middle Tier/ Database and transition using iterative agile methodologies. Developed Views of Various modules throughout application using Razor View engine templates and masking is implemented for teh register and logon pages. Worked with LINQ for .Net and Entity framework, also wrote stored procedures using Microsoft SQL server for new applications. Extensively used ADO.NET for connecting to database and calling teh procedures and functions and used ADO.NET for data interaction between teh web application and teh database using Data Reader, Data Adapters control. Involved in creating WCF REST services for various policies and benefits, and consumed them into teh web application. Developed teh web services for preparing teh report using XML. Utilized JQuery for client side validation also used Kendo controls. Error handling has been done using teh Log4Net, which registers teh exceptions, occurred. Involved in performance tuning and code cleanup of teh old PRO solution/migrated partial modules to MVC, also implemented dependency injection using Unity. Designed large numbers of Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls using XAML language for UI and Dynamic Web Parts for personalized content which allows Change, Edit, Move teh content on pages as user’s own choice Response to improve teh performance of teh application Involved in complete SSIS life cycle in creating SSIS packages, building, deploying and executing teh packages in teh development and production environments Team foundation source is used for controlling teh Source Control Management. Environment: C#.Net, ASP.NET MVC 4.5, Entity Framework, Razor, Microsoft visual Studio 2010, JQuery, AJAX, LINQ, WPF, SQL Server 2008, HTML, XML, TSF, Kendo controls and Windows 7, SSIS. .NET Developer Confidential, Minneapolis, MN Responsibilities: Designed and developed teh Windows application which consisted of a Win Forms GUI with business objects for code reusability. Developed teh classes using C#, which in corporate N-tier architecture and Oracle database connectivity. Used HTML5, CSS to develop dynamic aspx web pages. Responsible for coding and reviewing highly scalable and good performance code for new windows based C# applications (Win forms). Used Angular JS to develop web forms. Developed complex web applications in Visual Studio 2010 and .NET 4.0 framework utilizing improved AJAX controls and LINQ. Designed teh front end screens and developed responsive Webpages using JavaScript and KnockoutJS. Wrote stored procedures and triggers in SQL server 2005. Worked on Node Js for developing server-side web applications. Designed and Developed an interactive Graphical User Interface for Various modules using Win Forms, Windows service, desktop applications inheritable Win Forms and User Controls Implemented AGILE Methodology in teh entire project. Developed cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for user interface uniformity throughout teh application using Bootstrap. Developed teh classes using C#, which in corporate N-tier architecture and Oracle database connectivity. Written stored procedures and table views. Environment: C#, .NET Framework 4.0, MVC 3.5/4.0, Oracle 11g, Visual Studio.NET 2010, HTML5, MVC 3, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, Bootstrap, Entity Framework, SQL Server 2005, Restful Web services, Angular JS, Node JS. .Net Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Implemented teh project using ASP.NET, Visual C# and back-end database as Microsoft SQL Server 2005 Developed C#.Net components to implement teh business logic, consumed instances of these using ASP.NET Designed User Controls in teh Application using ASP.NET for writing reusable User Interface UI and encapsulating teh functionality. Performed validations on Web Forms using .NET Validation controls and also JavaScript. Created and consumed web services using Visual C#, ASP.NET. Developed and designed teh User Interface using ASP.NET controls, HTML, DHTML and CSS. Designed and developed WCF Web Services and configured our WCF Services with appropriate end points for consuming them in teh web application. Used teh Object Oriented Programming (OOP) techniques and created classes (C#.NET) for database access. Developing Web forms and windows forms for concerned using Angular js. Environment ASP.NET, Microsoft .NET Framework 2.0, ADO.NET, AJAX, T-SQL, SQL Server 2005, windows XP, IIS 6.0, Cascading Style Sheets, C#, JavaScript, SSRS. Net Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Involved in conversation of existing intranet ASP .NET based Application. Used VB.NET language for code behind Pages to use teh OOPs functionalities. Developed forms for teh web application in VB.NET. Involved in designing Web forms using server controls, validation, user controls using VB.NET Developed GUI based Administrative application to track teh data using VB.NET Developed GUI based Administrative application to track teh data using VB.NET Win Forms. Used XML/XSLT for web based Reports. Configured ASP.NET Web Config file for teh entire web application. Used ADO.NET extensively to interact with Oracle database Developed ASP.NET web services to encapsulate business logic components to be used in a distributed environment using VB.NET and exposed them through SOAP. Developed GUI based Administrative application to track teh data using VB.NET. Implemented Stored Procedures, Triggers, Joins, and Views in SQL at teh backend level Developed COM components to add, delete, and update teh products as well as customer details in database. Used crystal Reports for Various kinds of Reports Environment: .NET 1.1(ASP.Net, C#/VB.Net, Win Form), SQL Server 2000/2005, WCF, Crystal Report 10, Ajax, ASP, VB6, C++, Delphi, PVCS, MS Visio, IIS 5.1, Windows Server 2003/Windows XP, Win Forms 