SUMMARY Having 14+ years of experience in information technology industry with complete software development life cycle software (Analysis, Design, Development, testing, documentation, deployment, maintenance), architectural design, gathering business requirements, project estimation, project schedule planning, resource planning, evaluating new technology stack, Functional/Design Specifications documentation, and support of systems and Data Modeling, testing and implementingObject Oriented Programming Concepts (OOP), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based applications,client - serverapplications, N-tierapplications, Windows Services and Web Services based. Expertise in web based application development using ASP.NET, ASP.NET 2.0, ASP.NET 3.5, ASP.NET 4.0, C#, VB.NET, Visual Studio, ADO.NET, WinForms, Web Forms, MVC, LINQ, TFS, ASP, Visual Basic 6.0, VBScript, IIS, ActiveX Components, ActiveX Controls, MS SQL Server, MS Access, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, XSL, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, Bootstrap, Angular JS, LINQ, ADO.NET, Ajax, PL/SQL, SQL Server 2005/2008, XML Web Services, Oracle, WCF RESTFUL, JavaScript. Experience in designing, implementing, configuring, deployment and consuming of web services using WCF, SOAP, WSDL, REST and Web API Web Services. Extensive noledge of Design and Development of User Interface using HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, XSL, JQuery, JQuery UI, Razor, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Master pages, Themes, AJAX Controls, JQUERY. Proficiency in writing complex queries and stored procedures, triggers using PL/SQL and T-SQL in databases like SQL Server 2008, 2008R2, 2012 and 2014, Oracle 11g, MySQL, Informix, MS Access. Experience in analyzing functional requirements, designing the application, analyzing the functional flow of the existing projects. Analytical, innovative, and result-oriented team player with ability to meet deadlines, and committed for excellence. Strong desire to work on other hot web development technologies like Node JS, Python, Express, etc. Experience working with Agile-Scrum-Sprint and Waterfall development methodology. Hands on experience on developing and managing the SSRS Reporting Services. Developed application with third party components such as Crystal Report XI, ASPOSE, and Telerik. Working in projects using Attlasian suite like JIRA, HipChat, Confluence and Bamboo. Working on applications in domains such as insurance, healthcare, ecommerce, retail and fidelity software. Hands on experience on Design Patterns using Model View Controller (MVC) and MVVM (Model View View-Model) architecture. Experience in Dependency Injection using Unity framework. Good experience using version control software like Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual Source Safe (VSS), and Sub Version (SVN), Git Hub and Bit Bucket. Performed unit testing and integrated testing for fixing the bugs, writing test cases, test plans and generating test scripts. Experience in creating logs using Log4Net and Nlog Experience in implementing LINQ by using LINQ to Dataset and LINQ to SQL for converting source code data Ability to adapt to new environment and open to learn new technologies in a team and as an individual good at problem solving and troubleshooting capabilities. Good experience working on incident management. Experience in 2D game development using Unity3D game engine. Experience in Bots development for different channels like Skype and Slack. Experience in responsive websites using bootstrap. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: VB.Net, C#, JavaScript, VB Script, VB 6, VB 5. Web Technology: ASP.Net, ASP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Ajax. Other Technologies: ASP.NET 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0 , MVC 3/4/5, Web API 1.0/2.0, Entity Framework 6/6.1, Azure, AWS, CSS 3, AJAX, XML, XSLT, XPATH, J Query. Mark-up/Scripting Lang.: HTML5, CSS3, XML, JQuery, Bootstrap, Razor, AngularJS Build Tools: MS Build Web Service Protocols: SOAP, WSDL Version Control Tools: SVN, TFS, GIT. (Tortoise Git, Tortoise SVN, Git UI), GitHub, Bitbucket. Operating Systems: Windows 10/7/XP, DOS. NT 4, 2000 Server, 2008, 2008R2, 2012R2 Database: Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server 2005/2008 R2/2012 IDE: Visual Studio .Net 2017/2015/2012/2010/2008/2005/2003 DB Access Technologies: Entity Framework, ADO.NET, ADO, ODP, OLEDB, RDO, DAO, ODBC, Dapper.Net. Reporting tools: MS SQL Server Reporting Service, Crystal reports 9 and 10, SAP Web I Other Tools: XMLSpy, ANTS Profiler, MS Office. JIRA, Confluence, HipChat, Remedy, Balsamic, Visio. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - El Paso, TX .NET Developer Responsibilities: Use of built in house HP legacy framework based on XML configuration/Data access files and extend use of user controls. Study, prioritize and propose quick, dynamic, comprehensive solutions to a long list of pending enhancements/fixes requests and document them for future reference. Involved in many UI, Middle layer, and Backend procedures; usability, maintainability and readability enhancements. Perform critical code and pair review to aim at improvising the user experience, maintainability, scalability and extensibility of the systems. Involved in the study, design and development of several new Stored Procedures for the new applications and enhancements of existing ones looking for accuracy and performance. Data Reporting Stored Procedures performance improvement from more than fifteen minutes to only 3 minutes using tool like Profiler and Execution plan to find the most resource consuming operations. Documentation for all enhancement/fixes and new request using built in house internal tools. Extensive manual test cases documents creation and execution. Deployment to Test, QA and Prod environments in 10+ windows servers. Post production support issues efficiently and closed on time on day-to-day bases. Environment: C#, NET 2.0, Confidential Interchange and Portal, Web Forms, TFS Source Control, Windows 2008 Server, IIS 7.5, user controls, Oracle databases, HTML, CSS. Confidential .NET Developer and Reporting Services Team Lead Responsibilities: Involved the entire SDLC from conceptualization stage, analysis, design, development, testing and deployment and feedback for a SLA and KPI´s reporting web portal using .net full stack. Work with other teams to build integrated solutions to assure data flow across interdependent systems like Linux, Windows servers, In House build in hardware and software like BMC Remedy, SAP Business Objects web Intelligence (Web I) and SQL Server Reporting Services. Implementation of SQL Server Reporting Services to provide reports delivery in a faster and secure way on time. Study and analyze new reports request to define the availability of the information and provide a time estimation to get the request done. “Point of contact” in SLA and KPIs data calculations. Handling daily, weekly, and monthly KPI’s reports generation and delivery. ETL from Linux servers to Windows servers Add-ins development for MS Excel, MS Power Point and MS Outlook using Visual Studio Tools for Office (VSTO) for reports generation using MS Power Point layouts. Windows Services creation using Visual studio and C# to insert/update information received by mail into SQL server databases. Implementation of Google Charts in the SLA/KPIs website to show the information in a graphical way to improve the data presentation. Dapper.Net website implementation for a faster and reliable data access layer. Designed and developed rich and enhanced web pages using MVC 5.0, C#, JSON, HTML 5, CSS3, JQuery. Writing the JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, JSON and Ajax to handling the client-side validations and dynamic page updates. Worked in a Scrum environment (agile software development). Global distributed team with developers of 3 countries Mexico, US and India. Design and implement integration components using MVC .NET (C#) and JSON, using latest industry standards and best practices. Design and implement Restful API layer along with calls to consume an API layer. Environment: C#, ASP.Net, MVC, Net framework 4.5, JS, Ajax, JQuery, SQL Server, JQuery Data table, JQuery UI, Bootstrap, BMC Remedy and SAP Business Objects web Intelligence (web I), HTML, CSS, Dapper.Net, design patterns, OOP, TFS Confidential, San Francisco CA .NET Developer Team Lead Responsibilities: Involved the entire SDLC from conceptualization stage, analysis, design, development, testing and deployment and feedback for a new SmartSuite website and re*currency platform. Study and analyze many of the existing systems and propose, discuss and plan improvisations to improve performance, ease of use, readability and maintainability. Be intimately involved in the development activities. Perform critical code review to aim at improvising the user experience, developer experience, maintainability, scalability and extensibility of the systems. Study, prioritize and propose quick, dynamic, comprehensive solutions to a long list of pending enhancements/fixes requests and document them for future reference for enhancements of current applications. Implemented Core and Secure Data web services as a middle layer to be consumed by dependent applications apart from the applications above such as Web Security authentication, Employer groups’ registration, Provider registration, etc. Lead the effort and closely worked with User interface and marketing communications team to develop specifications, design and implementation of common framework UI components and elements to be used across all web applications for uniform user experience and improve developer ease and productivity across enterprise web applications. Extensively used ASP.NET data controls integrating jQuery for challenging user interface requirements and enhanced user experience. Extended the out of the box .NET security mechanisms to implement custom authentication and authorization strategy for organization type dependent, role dependent User interfaces across applications. Developed several test cases for unit testing, integration tests and non-regression test. Developed several automation test using Selenium, Chrome Driver and Python. Designed, implemented and carried out deployment of the applications across development and testing environments and prepared easy to follow install instructions for the release team to deploy to the pre-production and production environments. Developed Installer class library to manage the configuration differences across environments. Use of cloud services and APIs from providers like Azure (VM, DB, App Insights, Web Hooks, App Mobiles backed), AWS (RDS, Lambda, S3) and Google Cloud. Implementation of Google Charts in the SLA/KPIs website to show the information in a graphical way to improve the data presentation. Leading a high performance 6 developer’s team and coordinated with functional team to manage the tasks in JIRA/Confluence/HipChat in Sprint iteration based on Scrum/Agile. SPA development for coupons redemption using AngularJS framework. Implementation of AngularJS with .Net applications. Replace of Razor Views with AngularJS code in 1 company website. Environment: C#, ASP.Net, MVC, Net framework 4.5, JS, Ajax, JQuery, SQL Server, JQuery Data table, JQuery UI, Bootstrap, Azure, AWS, Google Cloud, Ninject, Entity Framework, Azure (VM, DB, App Insights, Web Hooks, App Mobiles backed, LUIS, cognitive services), AWS (RDS, Lambda, S3) and Google Cloud, Microsoft Bot Framework, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, Dapper.Net, design patterns, OOP, GitHub. Confidential, Chicago Illinois .NET Full Stack Sr. Developer Responsibilities: Study, prioritize and propose quick, dynamic, comprehensive solutions to a long list of pending enhancements/fixes requests and document them for future reference for enhancements of current application. Issue resolution using the best approach with C# code, web forms, user controls, net framework 1.0 and Asp Classic with VB Scripts. Use of ANT tools to build software for deployments to test and QA environments. Manual test cases creation and execution. Improvement of UI using JQuery controls and Asynchronous calls. Use of Balsamiq tool for a fast wire framing for new UI request. Production support to solve issues in all Dev, Test, QA and Prod environments. Log capabilities implementation for all websites to get accurate information regarding the issues at runtime Environment: C#, ASP.Net, MVC, Net framework 4.5, JS, Ajax, JQuery, SQL Server, JQuery Data table, JQuery UI, Bootstrap, Balsamiq, HTML, CSS, SVN, Log4Net, Ant Confidential, Memphis TN .NET Full Stack Sr. Developer/Team Lead Responsibilities: Receive the source code without noledge transfer and short and outdated documentation from another team for 3 internal websites. Study, prioritize and propose quick, dynamic, comprehensive solutions to a long list of pending enhancements/fixes. Production environment bugs fix to reduce the systems downs in a 90%. Slow performance improved in all websites modules to provide a better usability to user. Windows Servers and SQL Server database migration from Windows Server . Source code changes to implement HIPAA. Test, QA and Prod environments ownership. Support to solve issues in all Dev, Test, QA and Prod environments. Gathering information for new user requirements. Time estimation for new user requirements and bug fixes. Log issues capabilities implementation for all websites to get accurate information. “Point Of Contact” for all these 3 websites. Lead a high performance 4 developer’s team. Environment: C#, ASP.Net, Web Forms, Net framework 2.0, JS, Ajax, JQuery, SQL Server, JQuery UI, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS. Visual SourceSafe, Windows Services, Windows Fax, Crystal Reports X, SOAP, design patterns, OOP. Log4Net, MySQL, VB.Net. Confidential .NET Full Stack Sr. Developer and BI Responsibilities: New final user and management websites development for “Holcim Mas” campaign. Study, prioritize and propose quick, dynamic, comprehensive solutions to a long list of pending enhancements/fixes requests and document them for future reference for “Banamex Deporteismo” credit card campaign final user and management website. Production environment bugs fix to reduce the systems downs in a 100%. Slow performance improved in all websites modules to provide a better usability to user. Test, QA and Prod environments ownership. Support to solve issues in all Dev, Test, QA and Prod environments. Gathering information for new user requirements. Time estimation for new user requirements and bug fixes. Log capabilities implementation for all websites to get accurate information regarding the issues at runtime. Reports generation in Excel, PPT and Crystal Reports formats. Data management and development (backup/restore, queries, SPs, Views, functions, trigers). Environment: C#, ASP.Net, Web Forms, Net framework 2.0, JS, Ajax, JQuery, SQL Server, JQuery UI, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS. Windows Services, Crystal Reports X, SOAP, design patterns, OOP. Confidential CRM and Ecommerce Applications Manager Responsibilities: Involved the entire SDLC from conceptualization stage, analysis, design, development, testing, deployment for all company websites (www.ninewestmexico.com ; www.ninashoesmexico.com ; www.westies.com.mx ; www.anneklein.com.mx; www.camper.com/mx). Sugar CRM implementation and management to improve customer’s management Study and analyze many of the existing systems and propose, discuss and plan improvisations to improve performance, ease of use, readability and maintainability. Be intimately involved in the development activities coding the most important process. Architect solutions for new applications improving upon the existing systems based on the analysis performed on them and input/feedback received from the users of the legacy systems. Perform critical code review to aim at improvising the user experience, developer experience, maintainability, scalability and extensibility of the systems. Interaction with other company teams to build integrated solutions to assure data flow across interdependent systems like SAP, POS, Websites, Magneto and SugarCRM. 12 Internal and external human resources management. Production environment bugs fix to reduce the systems downs in a 100%. Emailing campaigns management software development. Environment: C#, ASP.Net, Web Forms, Net framework 2.0, JS, Ajax, JQuery, SQL Server, JQuery UI, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS. Windows Services, Crystal Reports X, SOAP, design patterns, OOP, Magneto, POS, SugarCRM, Log4Net Confidential .Net Developer Responsibilities: Production environment support. Shopping cart development for the website. Products rating and comments UI and development. Preview images UI and development. Working in Agile and Scrum. Visual Source Safe source code repository. Environment: C#, ASP.Net, Web Forms, Net framework, JS, Ajax, JQuery, SQL Server, HTML, CSS. Confidential User Acceptance Test Manager Responsibilities: 10+ Server’s software installation and configuration. All applications installation in 100+ terminals Test all applications set (ECHO, LIMA, ECHO Mobile, CFMS). Test cases development and Execution. Defects Management. User Acceptance Test execution to get the customer approbation signature. Environment: C#, ASP.Net, ActiveQ, Rabbit MQ, SQL Server 2008, PostgreSQL, PostGIS, Net Framework 3.0, Fuse Server Message, Active MQ, Enterprise Library, Net Toolbar, Web Services, Surge Mail, SharePoint Server. Confidential Sr. .Net developer Responsibilities: Gift Card Electronic Invoice System development using Pegasus Invoice System. Defining the right SOAP envelop to use all Pegasus engine system methods like Invoice Creation, PDF Files Creation, Create XML files, send email. Interface creation to extract invoice information from Informix databases to SQL Server. 4GL development to create routines to extract information from 4GL. Shell creation to execute 4GL routines. Online and batch invoice process system development. Environment: C#, ASP.Net, Web Forms, Net framework 2.0, JS, Ajax, JQuery, SQL Server, HTML, CSS, SOAP, XML, Informix, Shel Confidential Project: IT Manager Responsibilities: Manage all company hardware and infrastructure. Point of Sale development Full stores management system to handle Inventory, Invoices, Human resources, etc. Stores interconnection to use same database. Environment: VB6, Crystal Reports, MS Access, SQL Server Confidential Project: IT Manager Responsibilities: Manage all company hardware and infrastructure. Annual meeting votes system development. Manage IT human resources. Hardware maintenance. Software maintenance. Website development and maintenance. Environment: ASP Classic, VB 6, MS Access, SQL Server, Windows NT 4, HTML, 