SUMMARY: Around 8 Years of experience in the area of analysis, design, Development, testing and implement high quality software applications. Extensive experience in architecture, design and develop Windows and Web Applications with MVVM, MVC and ASP.NET, 3 - Tire and N-Tire Architecture. Extensive hands on experience on WinForms, WPF, WCF, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, Web Services, Restful Services, Web API, LINQ, ADO.NET, AJAX, AngularJS, KnockOut, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3 and C#, VB.Net, Web Services, XSL, XML, Java script, AutoMapper. Extensive experience with Visual Studio 2015/2012/2010/2008/2005, VSTS, SQL Server 2005/2008 projects and .Net Framework 1.1/2.0/3.5/4.5 for the development of software class libraries, middleware Business Logic Layer (BLL), Data Access Layer (DAL) and User Interface (UI) components . Experience of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts and principles, Test Driven development, automation testing. In depth knowledge and proficiency in working with SSIS & SSRS. Strong experience in design and development of databases like SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, Oracle 11g and MySQL and developed stored procedures, Triggers, Functions, and Views. Expertise in using Language Integrated Query (LINQ) provides for data manipulation. Experienced in using Ajax controls(Atlas) and other Third Party Controls(Telerik Ajax Controls). Excellent experience in using scripting languages like Angular.js, Java Script and AJAX (Asynchronous Java Script and XML) and JQuery. Involved in VB to VB.Net 1.1 migration and ASP.Net 1.1 to ASP.Net 3.5 migration. Good Knowledge on Azure Active Directory, Content Delivery Network(CDN), Redis Cache, Tables & Blobs. Have good Experience in working on Azure PAAS, IAAS and Storage, Azure SQL Database and Azure AppServices, Multi-Tenant Environment. Knowledge on Azure and deploying applications in Azure and developed an Azure based high performance compute environment to support the massive computational requirements of client congressional redistricting Azure application. Experience with rapid application development & Test driven application tools including Rhino Mocks, NUnit. Intricate understanding of modeling business requirement into software architectures using Object Oriented Analysis Design (OOAD), Object Relational mapping (ORM) methodologies, design patterns for developing reusable code and class libraries. Hands on experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and developing and consuming of WCF (Windows Communication Foundation) services. Experience in using TFS for Task Management, Code repository and version control, build and release Used TFS, VSS, SVN, and Clear Case to maintain source code and data branches in version control. Experience in deployment of build capabilities to live environments and debugging issues related to deployment and analyzing business processes, workflows and security protocols. Actively participated in reviews, meetings with the developers and technology Leads to improve the performance and quality of the application. Extensive experience in executing Agile Scrum and SDLC projects; Extensive experience in L3, L2 support. Excellent verbal and written communication skills, ability to work well in a team or individual environments and also extensive mentoring experience. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Languages and Scripts: C#, VB.net, VB script, XML, ASP.NET, HTML, ASP, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, XSLT, DHTML, XHTML, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, JQuery, Knock Out, Web ServicesFrameworks and Tools: WPF, WCF, .Net Framework 4.5, 3.5, 2.0,1.1, SSIS, ADO.Net, LINQ Database: SQL Server 2014,12,08, Oracle 11G, MySQL, MS Access Source Control: TFS, Clear Case, SVN Unit Testing Tools: Rhino Mocks, Nunit Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports, SSRS Platforms: Windows 2000/NT/XP/Vista/95/98, Windows Server 2003,2008,2012. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, Atlanta Sr .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in gathering the requirements from client and in the analysis, design & development of the project. Involved in the design of security module that authenticates users based on the roles and also performing web security and .net security. Followed agile methodologies (scrum, extreme programming) and test driven development. Developed and consumed services in Asp.Net Web Services, WCF services and ASP.NET Web API 2 REST services Involved in UI build release, defect and bug fixing. Migrated the existing JQuery based web application to Angular.JS. Followed MVC architecture and used MVC 4.0/5.0 for the application development. Designed CRM technologies for marketing of organization products, allowing effective communication with customers. Designed and implemented WCF REST service for stateless webservice behavior. Development and Deployment using Power Shell Scripts using Azure. Developed PowerShell Scripts for Automated Deployment of Developed Packages using Service Fabric. All the user interface layers, web pages are created and integrated to maintain theperformance of data flow and data integrity using ASP.NET User Controls, Server Controls, Classic ASP and Bootstrap control. Implemented changes in coding and designs using knowledge of VB .NET Implemented Server and Client side validations using ASP.NET (4.5) validation controls, J-Query and Knockout js. Data binding was extensively used to bind various server controls to the data from database. List controls like repeater controls, data list controls and data grid controls was used in displaying rows of data in a customized template format. Used Ajax Control tool kit of .NET 4.0 frameworks to improve the look and feel and the Usability of the application. Advanced PowerShell scripting, farm architecture & administration, backup/restore/migration. Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) extensively for version control of the source code along with the maintenance of the builds and the relevant documents of the same. Analyzed and designed new WPF application using MVVM and Repository pattern, from design to completion. Used Linq to SQL with Dynamic Linq library. Configuring virtual network in Azure, including setting Site to site connectivity or point to site connectivity and deploying Azure VM and cloud services in virtual network. Created WCF Services and Client Proxy for communication between Application Server and Web Server. Provided session level security and password authentication using Session objects and Cookies. Used bootstrap Cascading Style Sheets (CSS 3) with HTML 5 to attain uniformity of all web pages. Extend the DotNetNuke Framework via custom module creation using SQL Server, C#, & Visual Studio 2010 Used SMTP mail class of .NET for the users to send mail with suggestions, receive any alerts, receive confirmation notifications etc. UAT support. Troubleshooting through logging and resolving defects on priority for UAT Worked on ORM Entity Framework and Nhibernate and oracle data modelling. Designed and developed several SQL Server Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, User defined Functions for all the DML functionality for the web site. DevelopingSSIS jobswith theSSIS packageswith additional steps which could be utilized forFTP files or staging intermediate data staging databases. Developing and deployingSSRS reportsfor the reports module like preliminary and final audit reports. Involved in testing the application using N-Unit testing. Environment: Visual Studio 2013, ADO.Net, ASP.Net 4.5, VB.NET, MVC 4.5/5, C#, HTML 5, CSS 3, Knockout JS, Angular JS, JQuery, Bootstrap, LINQ, VSS, OOAD, SOAP, N-tier, IIS 6.0 UML, Agile Methodology, Web Services, XML, WCF, WPF, WEB API, RESTful Services, Azure, NUnit, Oracle 11G, T-SQL SSRS, SSIS Confidential  Sr.Net Developer Responsibilities: Worked as Senior .Net Developer for Design and development of web applications using .Net Technologies C#, ASP.Net MVC4, WCF Services, Angular JS, JQuery, HTML5 and CSS Employing ASP.NET MVC 4 and Razor engine to render Angular JS / Bootstrap responsive pages. Designed and implemented Angular JS view models as well as the underlying JSON model data. Worked on building a layered AngularJS powerful two-way data-binding system and to support partial views. This allowed the partial views to contain the JavaScript functionality that was associated with them, making them both reusable and much more maintainable compared to a pure JQuery system. Developed Razor views (.cshtml) using HTML Helper methods and C# to display the wire information. Worked on ASP.NET MVC routing and using Global.asax RegisterRoutes methods. Implemented various client side validations using Data Annotations to validate Model data. Developed and consumed enterprise level Web APIs, RESTful Service, WCF service, Web Services. Created and deployed WCF services in Windows services and IIS. Developed all the Business Logic for all the modules in a separate Business Layer in C# and this was implemented using WCF and MSMQ. Implemented Web Services in C# based on SOAP Protocol using XML and XSML extensively for data transfer. Created core server controls such as Dropdown List, Checkbox List, Grid View and other advanced controls such as calendar control. Worked on Agile Methodology to practice-based methodology for modeling and documentation of software-based systems. Used Asp.net AJAX with JavaScript to send asynchronous data from a server to web client Extensive experience in using C# for creating multi-threaded application for parallel processing. Used C#.Net, ADO.Net and PL/SQL Procedures in-order to access the SQL Server database for the front-end presentation. Created Web Forms, Custom controls, User Controls, Code behind pages using .NET Framework. Wrote PL/SQL queries with Joins on multiple tables, Stored Procedures, Functions Triggers Developed the data layer class, Business layer class using C# which is reusable for data transactions of entire project. Designed different components using C# language and used Exception handling, Error providers to handle exceptions. Implemented Queries using LINQ for effective access with database and easy handle of file operations and XML. Developed the necessary Stored Procedures and created Complex Views using Joins for robust and fast retrieval of data in SQL Server using T-SQL. For Source Control Integration TFS 2010 was used for daily code check-ins. Involved in testing of application by Unit Testing, Integration Testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and End User Support. Environment: Windows 7, .Net 4.0, Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server 2008, PL/SQL, C#, WCF, Linq, Ado.Net, XML, Siebel CRM, MSMQ Confidential, Cary, NC .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Requirement gathering, Estimation/ Task Planning, Design, Development and Unit testing. Designed and developed application layer using ASP.NET user controls, HTML controls and server controls. Constantly communicated with the BA team for functional requirement updates. Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS3) for a unified look and feel of the application. Developed the Business Logic Layer of the application using C#. Designed and developed effective web application based on technical design and requirement specifications. Used 3-tier architecture to implement presentation layer, business layer and data access layer. Designed and developed rich and enhanced web pages using MVC 3.0, C#. Extensively implemented Object Oriented Programming functionalities. Designed and developed UI for the website with the focus on the user’s experience and interaction using ASP.NET User Controls, HTML Controls and Server Controls. Experience in creating Parameterized reports and Linked reports with thorough knowledge of report serving architecture. (Table, chart and matrix report). Efficiently deployed WCF services to facilitate our clients to effectively retrieve the data from the database. Created a Relational Database Schema in Entity Framework. Created LINQ connections to establish data communication accessing data collections. Used LINQ to Entities for data manipulation. Incorporated Authentication and Authorization features in web.config on the service side. Used and Designed WCF Services using SOAP protocols using C# while implement business logic middleware. Created logging for ETL load at package level and task level to log number of records processed by each package and each task in a package using SSIS. Used SSIS to unite data from existing system and performed transformations on MS SQL 2012. Designed and implemented the UI with extensive use of Java Script and jQuery. Involved in estimations for each task, and provided status in scrum meetings. Used Clearcase for the version control of the application. Good Experience in developing website Front-End Graphical User Interface using AngularJS. Experience in creating SQL Server Reports and writing queries in SSRS. Created SSIS package to notify the acquired balance hours to the employees. Experience working in agile methodology. Environment: ASP.NET 3.5, Web forms, MVC 3.0, WCF, Visual Studio 2012, C#, JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, SQL Server 2012, SSIS, SSRS, Rational Clearcase, JQuery, AJAX, SSRS, SSIS. Confidential, San Diego, CA. Senior .NET Programmer. Responsibilities: Involved in understanding Existing Applications and Reviewing Requirements, Use Cases with Business Team and implementing and prioritizing the tasks as per Business Requirements using the Agile Methodology. Involved in designing Security and Shared Services (Excel and InfoPath form) for different sites according to different department and activities. Implemented MVC pattern in the application development. Designed Web Forms, User Controls, and AJAX Web forms using ASP.NET 3.0/3.5. Extensively worked with ASP.NET Web Site Administration Tool to create Roles, Login Controls, Authentication and Authorization for Site Security. Created and used user controls and custom controls. Created and consumed web services. Designed and developed User Interface for Patient Billing, Prescriptions and Collections. Designed and coded the Winforms to do analysis on existing XML files. Designed GUI using C# and WPF. Designed Rich UI using bindings in WPF. Designed and Implemented Web Services and hosted on IIS Server to expose user authentication with Unified Access Request System. Implemented SOAP protocol in Web Services. Involved in developing custom user controls to reduce the Complexity in UI Coding and made it look better and simple. Implemented AJAX and used Ajax control library toolkit to improve performance and features of application. Used AJAX Controls like Script Manager and Update Panel to develop the GUI. Used XML intensively to bind the data to the Web Controls, Data manipulation to store data. Developed many SQL queries to fetch data as per the business requirements with tuning techniques. Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Views in the SQL Server 2008. Worked on creating and scheduling of T-SQL jobs to run daily. Generated reports using SSRS and integrated with web application. Used Microsoft Visual Source Safe (VSS) for source access management. Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2008, ASP.Net, C#, JavaScript, ADO.Net, SQL Server2008, T-SQL, SSRS, MVC 3, WPF, MVVM, WCF, VSS, IIS 6.0, Web Services, XML, SOAP, UML Confidential  .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in gathering the requirements, analysis, design, development, unit testing and deployment of the project. Extensively worked on SharePoint content management system, Creating new web application, creating new pages, loading content data, implementing controls, creation of user required forms using controls, applying the site themes from SharePoint gallery, populating controls and content in work area Extensively worked on Editors, page builder, taxonomy, site set up, web page content, web config files and list. Hands-On experience in creating Lists, Documents, Libraries, Photo galleries to store content, web pages and images using SharePoint. Also good experience in saving deploying the web application. Experience in creating user groups, assigning, roles, targeting the users to particular groups, giving user permissions and access, security in SharePoint Hands-on experience in taking backups for work area, libraries, content from SharePoint and restoring them when needed. Involved in the migration of code from classic ASP to ASP.NET using C# also involved in designing user interface using CSS, Themes Worked on the stored procedures, functions, and triggers etc using SQL Server 2005. Generated wide range of business reports as per the project requirement and also exporting then to HTML, XML and Excel. Worked in the project integration, deployment of code in staging and production servers. Also maintained versions of code using VSS. Involved in Unit and Integration testing and generated reports. Presented project demos and seminars to the client in all stages of development life cycle. Involved in the project integration, Deployment, Unit and Integration testing. Environment: SharePoint CMS, ASP.NET, C#.NET, Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2005, AJAX, Java Script, HTML, XML. Confidential  Application Developer Responsibilities: Involved in requirement gathering, design, development of the project. Designed, developed and consumed WCF services through HTTP, HTTPS, and Named-pipe. Used WinForms, WPF for rich user interface design and development. Implemented MVVM design pattern. Implemented Entity framework for data access layer Implemented Multi threading to store videos. Implemented SSIS packages to import data from excel sheets, text files and different data sources. Implemented reports using SSRS on daily usage of the system. Implemented encryption and decryption methods to store sensitive data. Lead the team to deliver quality and timely deliverables. Applied agile scrum methodology to develop the product. Participated in poker planning and sprint retrospective meetings. Provided Sprint demo’s to the business users and modified product and sprint backlog items. Developed product as per coding standards and participated in peer code review. Developed Unit tests using NUnit and Rhino mocks. Involved in creating LLD, HLD documents. Created unit tests and maintained source control using VSTS. Interacted with the clients’ directly to understand the requirements. Arranged video and tele-conferences with the client as and when required. Helped team to get the domain as well as functional knowledge. Incorporated agile methodology. Environment: WinForms, .Net framework 3.5,VS2010, WCF, WPF, MVVM, C#, VS2008, SQL Server 2008, Entity framework, SSIS, SSRS, XML, XSLT, VSTS, Rhino Mocks, NUnit. Confidential  Application Developer Responsibilities: Created customized message format using C#, XML, Java Script. Implemented user interface with Win forms. Implemented .Net assemblies using C#, VB and deployed to client servers. Created stored procedures, views in SQLServer2005. SSIS package’s area created to achieve change data capture. Implemented reports to track project progress using SSRS. Scripts to compare the data are created using Jscript, CSV, ASP, VB Script. Analyzed and did set up the environments for different data servers. Demonstrated functionality and input data and enhancements to different users. Interacted with the clients’ directly to understand the requirements. Arranged and participated in the video and tele conferences with the client as and when required. VSTS is used to develop unit test cases,track effort and for source control. Helped team to get the domain as well as functional knowledge Analyzed and understood Business requirements with the help of Functional and Technical Specification documents. Involved in major functional testing, Issue tracking, Bug fixing and review. Implementing Functional, Regression Testing and System integration testing. Environment: VS2005, Winforms, C#, Visual Basic, ASP, ADO.Net, SSIS, SSRS Java Script, VB Script, HTML, XML,SQL Server 2005, VSTS. 