PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY: 7+ years of experience as .Net Developer in advanced Microsoft.Net Technologies. Experience in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance of web applications. Extensive experience in C#, ASP.NET 3.5, ASP, JavaScript, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2005/2008R2, XML, MVC. Maintained and enhanced a mission - critical application for insurance company that tracks and reports on insurance policies (PowerBuilder 10.5, Sybase System 11.5) Expertise on .NET Framework with good exposure on Foundation Classes (WCF). Solid experience in developing software using 3-tier Architectures and Strong Business Focus and Patterns. Good experience in WINFORMS. Highly Proficient in Object Oriented Programming techniques. TFS Administration, Build and Deployment script generation. Excellent knowledge in C++, C#, OOP concepts. RDBMS knowledge and experience includes SQL Server& database programming skills including creating stored procedures, views, triggers and data connectivity using ADO.NET. Experience with Data Accessing including using Data Adapter, Data Reader and Dataset in ADO.NET and Language Integrated Query (LINQ) Providers for data manipulation. Extensive knowledge Silverlight control authoring using control templates, data binding and visual state management. Experience in developing stored procedures, triggers using SQL, in relational databases such as MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008. Good experience in working with the windows application using the environment of VB.NET. Extensive experience in design & development of various Web-Forms using ASP.NET, HTML&CSS for the User Interface Presentation layer of various applications. Team player with excellent communicational, interpersonal, analytical and problem solving skill. Having Knowledge in implementing SSIS packages. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Programming Languages:  C#, ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, XML, XAML, XSL, XSLT, C, C++, VB6.0, ASP.NET. Development Tools:  Visual Studio .NET /2008, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Team Foundation Server, Agile Methodology, UML, Microsoft Office Visio, SSIS, SSRS,Power Builder .NET Technologies:  Microsoft .NET Framework (CLR, CLS, CTS), C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, XML Web Services, Win Forms, Web Forms, WSDL, UDDI, .NET Remoting, N-Unit, MVC, N-Hibernate, WCF, WPF, MVVM. Web Development:  ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, ASP, IIS 6.0/7.0, VBScript, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XSL, XSLT, jQuery, HTML/DHTML, AJAX, ExtJs, JQuery, JSON. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, Southlake, TX .NET Developer Responsibilities: Worked on the WCF Services on the Backend of the Mobile application where the services, it supports the front end application. Worked on the Visual Studio 2008/2012 for the WCF services to develop the code in the backend of the Mobile Application. Designed and created several applications using PowerBuilder (ver. 5-6.5) Created the virtual Directories for the WCF Services using the IIS7. Created Application Pools in the IIS7 to Bridge the application, where the WCF Services are called from different Projects. Worked on the Enhancement of the Mobile Application using the WCF Services. Validated the Kill Switches in the Database using the SQL Management Studio 2008 R2, which are used in the Mobile application. Worked on the N-Unit Testing using the WCF services which are created earlier for the development of the Mobile application. Worked on the front end of the Mobile application in validating and enabling the field using JavaScript. Tested the application physically by getting the latest application build in to the Mobile device or Tablets, to check all the functionalities are working good. After running the application, Captured the status of the application by going in to the latest logfiles of the Services which was used. Intensively working with Expression Graphic 3.0 for graphic design, Expression Blend 3.0 for Silverlight and WPF Developing and Visual Studio 2008 for Silverlight backend programming in C# for dynamically generating components in front Silverlight. After making some changes in the application from the WCF Services side, the local build was done in the local or Remote Machine to revert the changes to application. Wrote the Stored Procedures in the SQL Server 2008R2, To validate the Kill Switches in the Database. Developed maintenance and Transaction screens using power builder Developed Payroll reports in Power Builder. Environment: Visual Studio 2008/2012, C#.Net, WCF, Power Builder Web Service, XML, XAML, XSLT, SQL Server 2008R2, JavaScript, T-SQL, TFS, IIS7. Confidential, Chicago, IL .NET Developer Responsibilities: Developed the user interface and implemented the code behind files using ASP.NET 3.5 and C#.Net Worked on Migrating the code from ASP.NET frame work 1.1 to ASP.NET MVC4/4.5. Worked on the WCF services for the Multi Language support. Created rich and interactive UI using WPF. Creating a webpage and user account for the website using the MVC4 application, AngularJS and JQuery. Optimizing, debugging and creating T-SQL stored procedures in SQL 2008 R2. Proficient in developing, deploying and consuming the web services using WCF. Worked on the WCF service to call the data from the existing database. Worked on creating the UC4 application Batch Jobs. Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a Test Driven Development (TTD) approach. Development experience in C#, XAML for Silverlight applications and web applications for Microsoft SQL Server. Worked on Outlook 2007/2010 plug-ins for the Visual Studio Tools for Office 4.0 version. Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a test driven development (TDD) approach. Coding the presentation layer using WPF and MVVM and service layer using Windows Communication foundation technology. Worked on optimizing the ASP.net web pages using C# and SQL Server 2008 R2 stored procedures to call the application from the database using the UC4 application in Visual Studio 2010. Worked on the service call, where we need to monitor the authorizations for the device release. Creating and modifying the Scrutiny Matrix using the SQL Server 2008 R2 for the different mobile carrier service and permitting the extended insurance on the Equipments. Develop reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and utilizing complex SQL queries and stored procedures. Configure and maintain Report Manager and Report Server for SSRS. Created XML and XSLT files in the batch server in order to validate the Field in the templates which are used in theVB6 Application. It has to send an Email Confirmation to the Customer. Restructured pages using semantic HTML/CSS to boost search engine rankings (SEO) Involved in “Agile” methodology for the project which involved daily scrum Re-wrote the Crystal Report module by creating Microsoft SQL Server stored procedures and used them in the report module written in PowerBuilder Performing the tasks in the TFS central repository system. Working with PowerBuilder in tracking/scheduling system. Environment: Visual Studio 2010, C#.Net, ASP.Net 4.0,VB.NET, WCF, Web Service, Linq SDK 2010,XML, WPF, XAML,XSLT, SQL Server 2005, 2008R2, Power Builder, JavaScript, T-SQL, TFS, UC4 Application. Confidential, Tampa, FL .NET Developer Responsibilities: Designed and developed application’s Dashboard style screen that enables all functionality using ASP.NET 3.5, AJAX, DHTML, and Dynamic User Controls and VB.NET. Developed the Business Objects, Data Access Objects, and Business Components as per the application architecture. Heavily used ASP.NET Server Controls, Validation Controls, JavaScript and User Controls. Created several Master Pages and Content Pages in 3.5. Developed WPF based framework for Client side UI using .NET Framework 3.5. Used WCF services for updating client side UI with backend. Extensively used the ASP.NET features like Grid View, List View, Detail View, Tree View, Multi View, FormView and other controls. Heavily used ASP.NET Server Controls, Validation Controls, JavaScript and User Controls. Implemented caching mechanism in many places of the application. Worked on security issues related to user authentication and authorization. Worked on creating View state, Cookies, and Sessions to manage user state. Participated in database schema revisions, Created and modified tables as per the new schema changes. Used Cascading Style Sheets for branding purposes and user look and feel. Performed Unit Testing and Integration testing on the entire application. Wrote Test Cases using N-Unit. Participated in an agile Environment to deliver higher-quality software far more rapidly. Produced Enterprise N-Tier architecture model using UML. Used Visual Source Safe (VSS) for Version Control. Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2008, C#, ASP.NET 3.5,WCF,WPF, AJAX, VSS, Windows 2003 Server, Windows XP, oracle 11g, XML, XPATH, WSDL, SOAP, JavaScript, AGILE. Confidential, Minneapolis, MN .Net Developer Responsibilities: Developed the user interface and implemented the code behind files using ASP.NET and C#.Net. Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures to retrieve the data. Used the SQL Server Database Tuning Advisor to check and optimize query performance. Used the SQL Server Profiler Tool to record and trace query execution. Involved in deploying the application to the Web server. Implementing LINQ queries on different data sources in Silverlight applications. Experienced in working with Microsoft frame workAsp.Net MVC 4 and MVP Design Pattern. Proficient in developing, deploying and consuming the web services using WCF. Worked on client side technologies JQuery, JavaScript&Silverlight. Converted provided PSD's to valid HTML/CSS for both websites and for HTML emails. Worked on MS Visual Studio 2005/2008/2010 and have end to end knowledge in integration of TFS and VSS. Ported old application from Power builder 4.0 to 5.0. Developed new ancestor classes in power builder using PFC to support Multi select generic list box and master detail relationships Expertise in Database Design and Database Programming (Stored procedures, Triggers, Cursors, PL/SQL, SQL) using SQL Server 2008 and MySQL 5.0. Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data from various time frame and division using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Worked on Query Optimization, Execution Plan and Plan guide. Having Knowledge in implementing SSIS packages. Involved in creating Security features like role based security using C#.net. Worked with JQuery to create dynamic pages. Used “Agile” methodology for the project which involved daily scrums. Involved in troubleshooting, Change request, and Production support by doing bug-fixing and implementing new and enhancements. Worked with QA team to resolve the issues. Environment: Visual Studio 2010, C#.Net, Power Builder,ASP.Net 4.0, SQL Server 2005, WCF, WPF, Clear Case. Confidential, Edison, NJ .Net Developer Responsibilities: Designed and implemented application using .NET Framework 4.0. Designed and developed the Business Layer, Presentation Layer and Data Access Layer for the application. Developed User Interface using Asp.Net and Code behind using C#.Net. Experience in implementing AJAX technology in the web forms. Used “Agile” methodology for the project which involved daily scrums. Experience in configuration of report server and report manager scheduling, give permissions to different level of users in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Involved in writing Java Script to handle client side validations. Maintain MS SQL Server 2005 and 2008, including security, configuration and install servicepacks upgrade. User Controls were used extensively, which actually contains the business logic, thereby reducing the number of pages the user has to navigate drastically. Created the Interactive Presentation layer in C#.Net and C# with IDE as Visual Studio.Net. Implemented Forms Authentication using database for Usernames/Passwords. Validation controls were used to accept or reject input before additional processing. Client form validations are done using HTML, Java Script. Responsibilities included layout of design in building the website using HTML, CSS and various other programs, and keeping up to date with any changes wanted by the client. Implemented auto fill for textbox using AJAX and web service. Designed and developed using several C++ design patterns Involved in Creating, managing and maintaining HTML, PHP, and ASP pages. Used Enterprise library in implementing Data Access Layer in the project. Responsible to develop Views and Stored procedures using SQL Server 2005. Created Stored Procedures, triggers, UDF, views, tables and generated TSQL script for application Involved in Daily Scrum meetings. Used TFS as central repository system. Environment: Visual Studio 2010, C#.Net,C++, ASP.Net 4.0,VB.NET, AJAX, Web Service, SQL Server 2005, JavaScript, T-SQL, TFS, IIS 6/7 Confidential  Jr.Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Design, and Development of ASP.NET Web Forms using C#.NET. Developed reusable User controls. Designed and developed Reports by using Crystal report Bundled Version for .NET. Involved in writing Stored Procedures and creating Tables, Views in SQL Server 2000. Involved in taking Backups, Restoring, Import /Export data using MS SQL Server and DTS. Improved the application performance using stored procedures. Develop reports using complex formulas and to query the database to generate different types of ad-hoc reports usingSSRS. The development environment was Managed C++ and C# (under Visual Studio .NET3.5/4.0 Framework) on Windows 2008 Server platforms Created and managed stored procedures, indexed views, user defined functions, triggers, database constraints to meet business requirements and policies. Edited, created, managed and maintained HTML, PHP, and ASP pages. Developed various modules such as Plans Listing, Plans Mapping, Plan Details, Plan State County Mapping, Fast App Filter, Fast App Search, Rate Calculator, Member Benefits, Monthly Premium Calculation etc. using C#.NET, ASP.NET and AJAX. Extensively used ADO.NET in order to retrieve and manipulate data from the Database. Created middleware components using VB.NET and C# for accessing Oracle 9i data. Developed Master Pages for the system using C#.NET and ASP.NET. Used Exception handling application block for checking errors/exceptions across the web site. Created Custom Reports such Appointment date, Patient ID, Discharge Date and Specialty wise etc. using Crystal Reports Developed Report Component, so that it retrieves the data by executing Stored Procedures throw Data Access component Environment: .NET Framework 2.0, C++,SQL Server 2005, C#, ASP.NET, Crystal Reports, Visual Studio.NET 2005, Visual SourceSafe. 