SUMMARY Software professional with around 8 years of experience in full project life cycle including Analysis, Project Planning, Design, Development, testing and Implementation. Experience in developing web based applications using .NET technologies C#, ASP.NET 2.0/3.5/4.0, WCF, LINQ, AJAX, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, Web Services, JQUERY and XML. Experienced in full Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) starting from Requirements Analysis, Design, Coding, Unit and Integration Testing. Developed ASP.NET MVC applications using Code First Approach in Entity Framework4.1 and UI in Razor View Engine. Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such as accepting input from teh page request and invoking teh requested actions on teh mode. Extensive experience in XML and Web Services, WCF services, RESTful services. Used JQuery to dynamically render teh content on web pages developed using C#. In - depth knowledge in Web service security using SOA architecture. Expertise in Web forms GUI development including client and server components, custom controls user controls, Web Services, ADO / ADO.NET. Experience in data object models like Language-Integrated Query (LINQ) and Entity Data frame work to retrieve and modify data and developed entity data frame work services. Developed JQuery code for client side validations. Involved in creating rich User Interface(UI) using WPF. Strong experience in designing web pages with HTML, JavaScript, CSS, HTML 5, CSS3 and Bootstrap. Good experience with development methodologies like Agile (SCRUM), Waterfall and Test driven development. Good experience in web application framework using n-tier,MVVM and MVC architecture. Extensive experience in configuring Internet Information Server (IIS), creating virtual directories, mapping them to physical folders and configuring applications for domain autantication. Strong experience about Object Oriented technology for software design and implementation. Experience in DatabaseDesign and Database Programming using SQL Server and creating database objects like Stored Procedure, Views, Triggers, Joins and Functions. Ability to work closely with users, lead cross-functional teams and handle multiple concurrent assignments effectively. Excellent experience working with UML for drawing teh Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, State and Activity Diagrams. Good Knowledge of SharePoint. Excellent skills in developing code for teh database applications to interact with teh databases, using ADO.NET Excellent working Knowledge of Backend programming, RDBMS (SQL Server 2000/05/08), SQL, T-SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers. Strong experience in Finance, Banking domains, Insurance, Health Care, Online Purchase (e-Commerce), and consulting firms. Enthusiastic, knowledge-hungry, self-starter, challenging and quickly assimilate latest technologies, skills, concepts and ideas. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages:  C#, C++, C, SQL Server Scripting:  ASP.NET 1.1/2.0/3.0/4.0/4.5 Client Scripting:  JQuery, JavaScript Web Technologies:  ASP.NET, HTML, XHTML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, XML with DTD, Schemas, XSL, XSLT, DOM, AJAX, SOA, MVC scaffolding Database:  SQL Server 2005/2008/2012 , SQL Server Integration Services(SSIS), MS Access Reporting and Testing:  SQL Server Reporting Services, Crystal Reports Application Tools:  Visual Studio 2005/2008/2010/2012/2013 Professional Edition Version controls:  Team Foundation Server, Team Center, Visual Source Safe, SVN Middleware:  WCF, ADO.NET, Entity Framework 5.0/4.1, LINQ, Web services Webserver:  IIS Methodology:  UML, Agile, Object Oriented, Waterfall Model PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, Atlanta, GA .NET Developer Responsibilities: Implemented business logic using C#. Implemented various features like Partial classes, Anonymous types, Read-Only Properties, polymorphism and inheritance of C# inbuilding data entity model. Used Visual Studio 2013 for developing Web based application. UsedAJAX.NET to use various controls for presentation layer. Used Entity Framework to perform CRUD operations on teh SQL Server 2012 database. Used LINQ queries to retrieve data from Arrays, Collections and Generics. Created Stored Procedures for performing repetitive tasks in updating related tables using SQL Server 2012 database. Worked extensively on Client-Side Validation using Java Script. Used JQuery to develop a modular approach dat allows teh creation of powerful and dynamic web pages and web applications. Applied Cascading Style sheets (CSS) to teh pages. Implemented Master page to allow centralizing teh common functionality of teh pages, so dat we can make updates in just one place. Developed CustomUser Controls to reduce teh Complexity in User Interface Coding and provide better look and feel. Used ASP.NET MVC 4.0 for building scalable standards-based web applications. Responsible for interaction with teh client in collecting teh requirements. Performed unit testing, fixing bugs and maintenance of teh product. Used TFS2013 for source code management, automated builds, testing and release management capabilities. Worked with Agile Methodologies to segregate teh development tasks into various sprints Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Visual Studio 2012, MVC 4.0, Silverlight 5.0, XAML, WCF, WPF, SQL Server 2008, SSIS, SSRS, IIS 8.0, TFS. Confidential, Houston, TX .NET/C# Developer Responsibilities: Participated in Design reviews, Architecture reviews, Code Reviews and discussed solutions to teh business problems. Developed Web based applications using agile methodologies. Managed NUnit test cases using teh NUnit framework and followed Test Driven Development (TDD) to develop teh Web applications. Utilized Ajax and JQuery to make applications load faster and some of teh processing can be done in web browsers and not only teh client site but teh server side execution is also faster. Developed new Web pages for an existing Web Application using Visual Studio .NET 2008, HTML, ASP.NET 3.5 Web Forms, C#, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, for additional user interfaces. Teh Web Application uses SQL Server 2008 database to store and manage its data. Used ASP.NET framework to support teh use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on teh class to create teh object itself. Extensively involved in developing components for Business layer and Data Layer, implementation application architecture Implemented Razor view in order to compact code and expressive fluid workflow. Utilized HTML halper in Views to reduce teh code thereby reducing teh tedious typing of html tags. Utilized ADO.Net Entity Framework technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQcommands. Created client socket application for establishing data communication in between applications. Developed teh independent WCF/WCF REST services and defined Service Contracts for specific functionality in search module Experienced in SQL Server Database Design, Data Model Design, Database Maintenance, T-SQL Queries, Triggers, Stored Procedures using SQL Server SSRS Built an ASP.NET application autantication using .NET Framework, MVC and IIS security model. Environment: C# 3.5/4.0, ASP.NET 3.5/4.0, Visual Studio 2010/2008, ADO.NET, HTML, WCF, DHTML, XML, XSL,XSD, SOAP, Web Services, SQL Server 2008, TFS, CSS, AJAX, MS Visio. Confidential, Findlay, OH .NET/C# Developer Responsibilities: Involved in identifying business requirement by gathering, analysis and design and developing using ASP.NET front end technology. Implemented Agile Methodology or teh project which involved daily scrums. Developed applications at presentationGUI, based on n-tier application architecture. Utilized AJAX, JavaScript & JQuery for coding techniques update parts of a web page and improve teh fluidity of webpage. Designed Custom Validation Controls for validating teh data in teh User Control and used ASP.NET Validation Controls for server side validation and Java Script for client side validation Experienced in template-based web programming using Master Pages, Themes, Style Sheets and Skins. Responsible for designing web pages with asp.net controls with rich user interface with Ajax control tool kit and JQuery for an efficient and interactive Webpages. Used WCF for rapidly building service-oriented applications dat communicate across teh web and teh enterprise. Developed WCF REST- API based web service to consume data by client. Implemented provider based services. Designed and developed master pages using ASP.NET and used CSS to enhance teh look & feel of teh website. Implemented Role based Forms Autantication for external Users and Windows Autantication for Internal Users using teh and role provider. Implementing WCF for developing and deploying services on Windows in line with teh Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). Developed plugin methods using delegates to implement event based system elegantly. Worked on LINQ to SQL for querying data from teh database and for inserting and updating templates and cases into teh database. Used stored procedureswith SQL Server 2008 for developing complex business rules. Hands on experience with N-UNIT testing for teh application. Maintained TFS as a central repository system and automatic builds and continuous integration and NUNIT testing. Created and deployed SQL Server 2008 SSIS packages to redirect teh data in to teh production Environment: C# 3.5/4, ASP.NET 3.5/4, Visual Studio 2010/2008, ASP.NET, MVC, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, CSS, XML, XPATH, LINQ, SQL Server 2008, SSIS, SSRS, MVC, TFS, Web Forms, IIS, Windows Server 2008. Confidential  .Net/ C# Developer Responsibilities: Involved in developing front end using MVC .NET, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS. Development of UI screens using HTML, JQuery and XSLT using MVC 2.0with CSS. Create dynamic and interactive user experience with extensive use of AJAX and JQuery. Decrease teh page response time using Server-side AJAX technique Create standard queries for data definition and manipulation in MS SQL databases. Implemented SOA using WCF technology. Developed and consumed WCF serviceswith features versioning, security, optimization and reliability. Integrated email client and supported different application integrations using inbound and outbound services using WCF. Create efficient and compatible service calls to different applications to transfer data using WCF. Send automated notifications to individuals and other applications using Asynchronous Service Calls. Used Repository Pattern and Entity Frame work for data persistency and easily manage teh flow of teh data to and from teh database. Handled multiple Database Servers, with different backup policies based on teh requirements. Participated in creation of SSIS builds, Materialized Views and other techniques of efficient data migration. Developed Stored Procedures, Views, and Functions and Optimized using indexes. Environment: C# 3.5/4.0, ASP.NET 3.5/4.0, Visual Studio 2010/2008, ADO.NET, HTML, WCF, DHTML, XML, XSL,XSD, SOAP, Web Services, SQL Server 2008, TFS, CSS, AJAX, MS Visio. Confidential  Junior .NET/C# Developer Responsibilities: Analysis of teh specifications provided by teh clients. Involved in requirement gathering, functional and technical specification. Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, Business and Data Access Layers using C#. Coding and debugging using ASP.NET and C#. Developed web forms using ASP.NET server controls and validated client side using Java Script. Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader and Dataset for consistent data access. Writing Database routines, stored procedures and fixing up standard specifications. Creating reports using teh Crystal Report for teh report needed by Middle Office and Back Office users. Identified researched, investigated, analyzed, defined and documented business processes. Involved in enhancing teh business layer to provide more interfaces and functions needed for teh system. Environment: Visual Studio 2005, ASP.NET 2.0, JavaScript, IIS 6.0, SQL Server 2005, Windows 2000 XP. 