SUMMARY: IT Professional with 13+ Yrs. of progressive experience in VMware Administration /Cloud Computing (AWS & Azure) /Windows/ SCCM Administration. Involved in designing and deploying a multitude application utilizing almost all of the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM, VPC) focusing on high - availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling, redshift. Experience in VMware Virtualization administration with a primary focus on design, installation, configuration, and administration of VMware VSphere Suite, ESXi 5.5/6.0 Experience in installing, configuring and managing vSphere 5.X, 6.X, vCenter. Experience in configuring DRS, HA, vMotion, storage vMotion, cloning, deploying VM’s from templates and automating VMware environment. Installed and worked on VMware Site Recovery Manager (SRM) for the disaster recovery and managed recovery plans. Management integrated ESX server, create a new storage space, creation of VMFS data store, Configuration networking for the virtual machines. Strong experience in VMware upgrade from 5.x to 6.x Troubleshoot issues on VMs, ESXi hosts, vCenter Servers, NSX agent failure installation on ESXi hosts Deployed and Integrated NSX with vCenter Server. Experience in figuring out on the SAN, principles like topologies, switch zoning (delicate & rough), LUN protecting on SAN Storage contraptions, LUN production and Storage administration. Practical work experience in Installing, Maintaining, Monitoring, Troubleshooting and Managing Blade Center server, Configuring and Zoning Storage Area Networks and SAN Switches. Proficiency in using vRealizesuite vRealizeOrchestration (vRO), vRealizeAutomation (vRA/ vCAC), vRealizeOperations Manager (vRops) and Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI). Experienced with VMWare ESXi servers. HA, DRS, V-Motion, P2V, V2V Expert knowledge of Microsoft SCCM. Including design, implementation, and experience customizing/extending SCCM/OSD solutions capabilities across large scale enterprises Implemented WSUS/SCCM integration and created a monthly phased patching process. Deploy security updates using SCCM Software Update Point (SUP) and Windows Server Update Services (WSUS). Excellent understanding of common application installation types (EXE, MSI, etc.) Excellent understanding of Microsoft Windows OS imaging & deployment tools (Windows PE/WAIK/ ADK) Advanced scripting knowledge (VBS/PowerShell/BAT), specifically to support AD / WMI queries and batch changes Created packages, collections and advertisements for software deployments. Expertise in Hardware Inventory and DCM configuration for SCCM 2012 implementation. Extensive knowledge of System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM), Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT) Active Directory users and groups, Security permissions and excellent understanding of GPOs Operating System Deployment (OSD) in Integration with MDT 2013. Windows 10 client troubleshooting. Provide Microsoft server administration to include monitoring server status, troubleshooting issues with client connectivity, response time, server performance, backup/restore, and disaster recovery planning and testing. Windows Azure Infrastructure as a Services (IAAS Platform). Creating cloud service, Virtual Machine Creation in Azure Portal. Experience with monitoring tools such as Cloud Watch. Created users and groups using IAM and assigned individual policies to each group. Good understanding of ELB, security groups, ACL, NAT, firewall and Route 53. Hands on working knowledge in tools like Chef/Ansible/Puppet Good knowledge in PowerShell and python scripting. Windows Security Patches updates on the Windows server 10 and troubleshooting the failures. Installed, configured, and updated Linux machines, with Red Hat and CentOS. Patch Deployment and server health monitoring by using OMS (Operations Management Suite) Supporting Windows environment (Active Directory, Exchange, Office, Windows servers) Maintaining DNS, DHCP, GPO’s, Direct Access, FTP, NLB, and DFS. Experience and manage in Trend micro antivirus on Microsoft Exchange servers and VMware. Experience in Exchange server 2007/2010 and Office 365 Administration. Create new and manage all existing Mailboxes and Distribution groups. Extensive hands on experience in Backup Applications (Symantec /CommVault) Installation, configuration and management of Commvault Simpana 9.0R2 and 10.0 Versions and Symantec Backup Exec 2012 Installation, configuration, management and troubleshooting Libraries and the tape drives Data bases and VMware servers backup and restoration. Troubleshoots and resolve basic LAN/WAN connectivity issues. Knowledge in administration of Share Point 2010 and MOSS 2007 portals. Knowledge in Microsoft SQL 2012/2014 and AO. Experience on self-service applications using Citrix XenApp Experience in Active Directory Federation Service (ADFS) TECHNICAL SKILLS: Operating Systems: Windows server 2008/2012/2016 & Linux, AD, DHCP, DNS, windows 10 Cloud Technologies: AWS (IaaS/PaaS), Microsoft Azure (IaaS/PaaS) System Center Configuration: SCCM 2007 and 2012,1606, MDT, OSD, WSUS Virtualization: VMWare ESXi 5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0, vCenter, vSphere, VMware Converter, vCloud Air, NSX, SRM, Microsoft Hyper V and SCVMM vCenter server: 5.5/6.0/6.5 Configuration & Administration: AD Server, File Server, DHCP, DNS, Print Servers. Mail Server: Exchange Server 2010/2013, Office 365 Backup and recovery tools: Symantec Exec 2010/2012, CommVault 9.0/10.0 Server Hardware: HP Enclosure, Cisco UCS, HP ProLiant DL & BL Series, IBM Application Software s: Service Now, Sales Force Ticketing & Remedy Ticketing Scripting: PowerShell, Python Antivirus: Trend Micro, SCEP, Norton/McAfee Antivirus Storage: Hitachi, EMC Configuration Management Tool: Chef/Ansible/Puppet EXPERIENCE: Infrastructure Architect Confidential  Responsibilities: Experience in VMware Virtualization administration with a primary focus on design, installation, configuration, and administration of VMware VSphere Suite, ESXi 5.1/5.5 Experience in installing, configuring and managing vSphere 5.X, 4.X, vCenter. Experience in configuring DRS, HA, vMotion, storage vMotion, cloning, deploying VM’s from templates and automating VMware environment. Installed and worked on VMware Site Recovery Manager (SRM) for the disaster recovery and managed recovery plans. Troubleshoot issues on VMs, ESXi hosts, vCenter Servers, NSX agent failure installation on ESXi hosts Deployed and Integrated NSX with vCenter Server. Experience in figuring out on the SAN, principles like topologies, switch zoning (delicate & rough), LUN protecting on SAN Storage contraptions, LUN production and Storage administration. Practical work experience in Installing, Maintaining, Monitoring, Troubleshooting and Managing Blade Center server, Configuring and Zoning Storage Area Networks and SAN Switches. Worked as a Level 3 for this project where in was responsible for gathering requirements from the client / project managers and coordinating with my team in providing solutions. Responsible for administration, daily operation, troubleshoot and maintenance of Microsoft Active Directory, SCCM. Monitoring and performance tuning for both Active Directory and Windows operating systems including connectivity, synchronization, replication, netlogon, time services, FSMO roles, schema, NTDS database partitions, DNS settings, SRV records, authorities and trust relationships Provided operational support on Active Directory, Group Policy, AD Trusts, AD Sites and Services, Microsoft Identity Manager, PowerShell DSC, Puppet for Windows, Time Synchronization, DNS, DHCP, and DFS. Expertise in Hardware Inventory and DCM configuration for SCCM 2012 implementation. Image deployment, Image Capture by using MDT and OSD Deployment of packages, Advertisements in SCCM 2007 R3 Having Experience in SCCM 2007 R3 to SCCM 2012 migration. Understanding of networking and troubleshooting for SCCM/OSD solutions over global networks: WAN/LAN, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, Routers, Switches and Firewalls Server OS skills: Installation, standard usage and troubleshooting of Windows Server 2008/2012 Expert level knowledge of current Windows Client based Operating Systems (Win 7/10) Excellent understanding of common application installation types (EXE, MSI, etc.) Expertise in SCCM Administration, deployment and Deployment of packages, Advertisements. Troubleshooting the M.P (Management Point) and Package replication related issues Having experience in Patching, software distribution and other SCCM features. Administration & Management of windows AD Infrastructure. Installing & Administrating Windows 2008 Roles in a Domain Environment. Technical Specialist Confidential  Responsibilities: Worked as a Level 3 for this project where in was responsible for gathering requirements from the client / project managers and coordinating with my team in providing solutions. Expertise in Hardware Inventory and DCM configuration for SCCM 2012 implementation. Image deployment, Image Capture by using MDT and OSD Windows Security Patches updates on the Windows server 10 and troubleshooting the failures. Software deployments and troubleshooting the issues on windows 10 Monthly Windows patches package deployments to Windows servers with SCCM. Generating Customized Reports per customer requirements with PowerShell. Responsible for administration, daily operation, troubleshoot and maintenance of VMware ESXi hosts, Microsoft Active Directory, SCCM 2007/2012, SharePoint portal, Microsoft & backup servers. Patching windows 2003, 2008, 2012 and 2016 servers with WSUS. Experience hardware inventory MOF file compile in SCCM 2007 R3 Image deployment, Image Capture. Monthly Windows patches package deployments to Windows 7 clients with SCCM. Generating Customized Reports per customer requirements with PowerShell. Working on complete ESXi 5.5 Installation on Cisco UCS blades, adding ESX hosts to production Cluster. Create and configure Virtual Machines, templates, Switches, VM clusters Providing Technical Solutions for Escalated issues on the Projects Configuring DvSwitch and adding port groups to DvSwitch for newly added ESXi boxes to cluster. Patching ESXi hosts thru Update Manager. Enabling newly created VMs for AV protection on Trend Micro Deep Security Console. VM Migration P2V and V2V, Migrating Hyper-V VM to VMware Infrastructure. Administration & Management of windows AD Infrastructure. Installing & Administrating Windows 2008 Roles in a Domain Environment. Group policy Management and DFS Management. Microsoft NLB configuration for Tier1 application Servers. Carried out regular review of Backup policies and procedures Removing VSS copies for Database Volume Criticality Issues. Create essential technical documentation to be used for applications support for the respective support team. Performing RCA (Root cause analysis) of Failures Printer’s migration from one Print Server to another and Management. Audit and maintain active & historical data of Active Directory using AD Audit, AD Manger plus Tool. Backup Administration (Configure and Restore, Monitor) by using CommVault and Symantec Tools. Senior Operations Engineer (SOE) Confidential  Responsibilities: Microsoft Windows2000 and 2003 Active Directory Services. (Installing, configuring, Administering & troubleshooting). Implementing & configuring Active directory services on Windows 2000 and 2003 server. Implementing, configuring and troubleshooting DNS service, forward & reverse lookup zone. Configuring & troubleshooting DHCP server and DHCP relay agent and WINS services. Implementing & configuring Windows 2000 and 2003 Distributed file system. Implementing & troubleshooting Windows 2000 and 2003 Routing & remote access. Implementing & configuring Windows 2000 and 2003 Terminal services. Creating & Managing Users & Groups and their Profiles like Roaming & Mandatory. Creating & managing Origination Units, Sites and Group policies. Network Administrator Confidential  Responsibilities: Configuration Remote VPN server and Easy VPN Server on Cisco 2801, RVL200, and RV042. Managing the exchange server 2003, internal and external DNS server, DHCP server, SQL server 2005/2000, Active directory, IIS. Maintaining the infrastructure network. Maintaining systems by monitoring, identifying and correcting software defects; investigating new technologies; create technical specifications and test plans; working closely with other operational staff, such as Network, Security operation; consulting clients/colleagues concerning the maintenance and performance of software systems and asking questions to obtain information, clarify details and implement information; problem-solving and thinking laterally as part of a team, or individually, to meet the needs of the project Infrastructure Engineer Confidential  Responsibilities: To maintain the Indian Airlines Ltd. network on Leased lines, dial-up, routers and perform all system admin tasks like user management, device management. And ensure the high availability of system resources to the end users and to maximize the uptime of doing the necessary work to diagnose, detect and rectify the faults in time. Directs & Co-ordination involving Local Area Network activities and install, configure and troubleshoot computer networks, microcomputer hardware and associated assemble. Installation, configuration and commissioning of the leased lines, which includes as 64 & 96 kbps lines of various agents and IA Network, MLLN.  System Administrator Confidential  Responsibilities: Installations of Redhat Linux up to 7.0 version, Network Configuration, File transferring and proxy connection from windows to Linux & Linux to Windows, SMB Server & Apache configurations. Installation, configuration and maintenance of win2000 server with client 200 professional and other desktop operating systems like win 98, XP. Downloading and uploading of Data through FTP.