PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY: 8+ years of experience in Information Technology primarily in Design, Development, Trouble Shooting and Bug fixes using Microsoft .Net technologies. Have good experience in Tier - 3 support, solving defects within time frame with proper documentation. Very strong experience in Requirement Analysis, designing, Administering Microsoft .Net, SharePoint Applications. Expert using .Net Framework, C#.NET, ASP.NET Custom Controls, Telerik UI Controls, WPF, WCF, SQL Server, LINQ, SQL, Visual Studio 2010, 2013, JavaScript, XML, CSS, HTML, MOSS 2007, Windows PowerShell, IIS 6.0, IIS 7.0, BMC Varalogix tool. Extensive experience in ASP.NET data caching, cookies, session, view, application state. Expert using MVC pattern and Object Oriented Programming Design. Extensive experience in ORM,Entity Framework Code First, DatabaseFirst approaches, implemented the Features Security, Performance, CRUD operations. Developing solutions with Microsoft NET using Visual Studio.NET 4.0, ASP.NET, C#.NET, and VB.NET with SQL Server 2000/2005, Oracle and Access as databases. Agile Methodologies, Experienced in the use of agile approaches, including Test-Driven Development and Scrum. Experienced in Implementing WCF services and consuming using different protocols and implementing features like Security, Debugging and Performance Experience in Data accessing including using Data Adapter, Data Reader and Data Set in ADO.NET and LINQ(Language Integrated Query) Providers for data manipulation. Experience working with all the versions of .NET Framework 2.0/ 3.0/3.5/4.0 Analyze, design and develop pages using ASP.NET MVC 4/JQuery/WebApi/WCF and Entity Frameworks. Hands-on Experience working with Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), Silver Light and Language Integrated Query (LINQ) Extensive experience in MS VS 2010 in-built utilities like generation of unit test scripts, debugging, code analysis tools. As SharePoint Administrator, having good experience in configuration and maintenance of farms in MOSS 2007 & SP 2010 environments. Have good experience in IIS maintenance, troubleshooting issues related to IIS & SP farms. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Languages: Visual Basic 5.0/6.0, VB.net, ASP, ASP.NET, C#, Java script, Jquery, HTML Web Technologies: Classic ASP, ASP.net 1.1/ 2.0, HTML, XHTML, HTML5,ANGULAR.JS, CSS, DHTML, XML with DTD,Kendo UI Schemas, WCF,LINQ, Ajax, XSL, XSLT. Databases: MS-SQL Server 7.0/2000/2005/2008, Oracle 8i/9i/10i,11g DB2, MS Access. Operating System: Windows 2000/ NT/ XP/ Vista/98/ 95, UNIX, DOS. Networking: LAN/WAN, Ethernet, TCP/IP, UDP. Version Control: TFS, MS-Visual Source Safe Reporting Tools: SSIS,SSRS, Microsoft Reporting Services WORK EXPERIENCE: Confidential  Senior .Net Developer Responsibilities: Development was done usingagile methodologywith daily scrums, paired programming using TDD and continuous integration using the SDLC process. Created the Controllers and Controller Actions, Action Results, Views, View Models, Routing usingASP.NET MVC. Implemented WEB API Services for CRUD operations with HTTP verbs GET, POST, PUT and DELETE. Used Http Response Exception to handle the exceptions in Web API and also customized the Exceptions using Exception Filters and registered them at the Action Level. Created a custom, single-page, responsive web application to replace a legacy line-of-business web application, developed using client side MVC Design using Angular JS and the front end framework. Responsible for the overall layout design that meet cross-device compatibility using Bootstrap, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows. UsedAction Filtersfor user authentications and authorizations and for caching pages to improve performance. Implementation of clientsidevalidations using jQuery, Angular JS and server-side validation using ASP.NET MVC Validation at Controller level Created WCF Services responsible for communicating and providing real time data from integrated server to Client Application. Worked on pushing the data to elastic search created the instance on (AWS). Retrieving the data and showing up on reporting tool Kabana. Have experience inObject-orient designprinciples such asSOLID,and design pattern such as Singleton, Abstract Factory etc. Have hands on experience on Micro services, configuring virtual machines. Hands on experience on creating the dashboards in Splunk tool, where we log the data and retrieve in the form of dashboard. Working in an environment whereunit testingNUNIT is given a high priority. Never the code coverage should drop below 75%. Used JIRA for project tracking (System Dashboard). Attended cross team scrum meetings where we discussed the team changes which may affect the performance of other team. Also was key player in production support. Used GitHub as the version control to achieve a good communication between the teammates. Environment: MS Visual Studio 2008/2005/2003, ASP.NET 1.0/2.0/ 3.5, and C#. NET, XML, XSLT Ajax, JavaScript, Web Services, SQL Server 2005/2008, SSRS, SVN, Subversion, Razor, SOA, Windows XP, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular js. Confidential  Senior .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in complete Software development life cycle(SDLC) including analysis, design, implementation, testing and maintenance. Developed project’s web application using .NETframework, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON. Used ASP.NETMVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions. Used ASP.NET MVC framework to support the use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself. UsedASP.NETMVCpage control pattern to accept input from the page request and to invoke the requested actions. Responsible for Designing and Developing the Reusable UI Components LikeMVCMasterPages “Layouts and Nested Layouts”, “View Start” and MVC User Controls “Partial Views”. Designed and implemented the user interface& validations using, JQuery,HTML5, XML, CSS3. Angular JSAjax module is used to handle Restful calls to enable communication between view components and server. Developed customAngular JSdirectives to build custom reusable modules to use across the application UsedSOAPto ImplementWeb Servicesand Consumed and publishedXML web servicesin the application. Created Entity classes, relationships between entity classes using LINQ (Language Integrated Query) to SQL to manage relational data as objects with Entity Framework Code First approach. ImplementedCode First and usedLINQ to Entitiesto massage the Data and optimized the Query Expressions. CustomizedRestfulWebServiceusingWebAPI, sending JSON format data packets between front-end and middle-tier controller. Worked on REST based Http methods and implemented GET, POST, PUT, PATCH and DELETE operations. Data Access layer for the application was implemented in ADO.NET for data input, queries, retrieval and management. Designed and maintained database in MSSQL Server Created tables, views, user defined functions, stored procedures and triggers using Enterprise Manager and Query Analyzer. Developed queries, Stored Procedures, Views and Triggers for accessing data from the MS SQL server 2012. Migrated and converted crystal reports into SQL server reporting services (SSRS) by using MS SQL server Reporting Services. Used TFS for version control and JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management. Involved in Unit Testing and Integration Testing of the entire application. Confidential, Chicago, IL .Net UI developer Responsibilities: Gathered business requirement documents for integration from the client. Used ASP.NET validation controls and developed JavaScript to perform various client side validations. Involved in creating web pages using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and AJAX and Designed Responsive UI using Bootstrap framework. Configuring Web.Config file, for the configuration of the entire web application. Used ADO.NET objects such as data adapter and data set to fetch and handle user data. Used C# as a code behind for web services and windows services. Performed enhancement to the old application which was built on legacy systems. Designed/Developed the stylesheets using CSS in order to provide consistent look and feel for the entire application. Used MVC pattern, where created views using HTML helper classes, JavaScript, CSS for displaying the data to the user. Writing routing for the Controllers and Views, writing action methods for Get, Create and Delete. Validating the Model classes. Created User controls, validation controls and used custom controls like date picker and custom validator. Implemented AJAX controls for responsive user interfaces to display the data on the web page. Developed SPA (Single Page Web Applications) using RESTFUL web services plus Ajax. Worked with SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) for providing comprehensive reporting functionality for variety of data source. Used SSRS for SQL Reporting services and integrated them with ASP.NET applications. Involved in Back-end database design and implementation using SQL server 2008. Created SQL stored procedures and triggers for complex business logic. Developed Tables, Stored procedures, Functions and Views. Source code is maintained with the Team foundation server (TFS). Involved in fixing bugs by debugging the application, Found solution for many technical issues in the project. Environment: MS Visual Studio 2008/2005/2003, ASP.NET 1.0/2.0/ 3.5, and C#. NET, XML, XSLT Ajax, JavaScript, Web Services, SQL Server 2005/2008, SSRS, SVN Sub version, Razor, SOA, Windows XP, HTML5, CSS3, LESS-CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular js. Confidential - Burlington, MA .Net developer Responsibilities: Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating Angular JS with Twitter Bootstrap, which is further integrated with Web Services Involved in development of application in C#, ASP.NET with SQL as backend. Created High Level Design Document for application development. MVC (model-view-controller) architecture based development. Developed View-Models in order to restrict the controllers to control the dataflow between the model and view. Created DB objects like tables, indexes, SP's. DevelopedWebAPIS for backend data communication. Generated unit test scripts and analyzed test results. Utilized MVVM, data binding techniques, event driven patterns and command patterns for data flow between GUI and business layer. MS Enterprise Library Data Access Block was used as DAL as part of distributed application for Data Access using MS SQL Server 2005 and ADO.NET. .NET Generic Collections were used extensively for developing Business Access Layer. Created web services for business logics in SOA approach. Deployed and managed web applications in the hosting site. Designed and created database tables and SPs, Views, Triggers and functions. Environment: ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, Visual Studio .NET, Visual Source safe, Web Services, ASP 2.0, VBScript, JavaScript, VBA, HTML, DHTML,XML, XSL, XSLT, II5, MSMQ, MS-SQL Server2000, SQL / T-SQL, Crystal Reports, Windows 2000/NT Confidential, Plano, TX .Net Developer Responsibilities: Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, Business and Data Access Layers using C#.Net Developed web forms using ASP.NET server controls and validated client side using Java Script. Used SQL Server 2005 to populate the data and information about the customers. Designed and developed UI using C#.Net,ASP.NET and used Grid view control throughout the application. Worked with tools like Microsoft Front Page, Dream Weaver for developing web interface. Configured Web.Config files for entire Web Application. Client and Server side validations done using ASP Validation Controls and JavaScript. Designed and developed code behind classes for web application using C#. Created and Deployed Web Services in Application for accessing the database with required security authentication of the system. Create Web services and publish them on the server and consume it in the client by creating the Proxy classes of the Web Services. Designed various stored procedures in database and worked on ADO.NET code to connect to SQL Server and extensively worked with LINQ queries. Created use case and class diagrams in MS Visio using UML notations. Involved in Installation, Configuration, Development, Deployment and Troubleshoot Reporting services using SSRS and Crystal Report across various environment. Throughout this project we followed waterfall methodology Environment: ASP, ASP.NET/C#, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2000, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, VS.NET, Win XP Professional. Confidential  ASP.NET Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the requirements gathering, analysis, design, code review and development stag Developed Multi - Tier Application in .NET using 3 layers approach. Presentation layer was developed using Win forms, business layer developed using C#, and data access layer developed using ADO.NET in C#. Developed reusable UI widgets such as the navigation menus. Design and developed static and dynamic pages validating Client side and Server side scripts. Used JavaScript for client side validation and design of the web site to suit other browsers. Used AJAX controls & techniques while designing the Summary page to present data dynamically and to allow interaction. Worked intensively on User Interface. Developed CSS and involved Master Pages to user interface uniformity. Deployed triggers for e-mail confirmations. Wrote Stored Procedures, Transactions, Triggers and SQL-Statements to access data from SQL Server Database. Environment: C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, Web Services, SQL Server 2005, IIS, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Ajax, Visual Studio 2005, Windows XP. 