SUMMARY: Lead Web Developer with Solid foundation in implementing .NET applications ranging from planning & architecting portal based solutions with strong emphasis on analysis, design and implementation principles through use case - driven SDLC approach & Software Engineering Best Practices. 13+ years of IT industry experience in which 10+ years of experience in designing & development of software applications for various clients, excellent understanding of full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, analysis, design, development, integration, testing, deployment & maintenance. Delivered various responsibilities including Team Lead and Senior Software Developer. Experience in design and development of Web & Windows applications using latest technologies including .NET 4.0/3.5/3.0, Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), Window Presentation Foundation (WPF), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Agile / Scrum methodology, Ms Entity Framework etc. Comfortable with Microsoft middle tier technologies like ADO.NET, ADO, COM, DLL. Experienced Professional in design & development includes C#, VB.NET, AJAX, MS SharePoint 2010/2007, XML, XSLT, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery. Experience in Use Cases, Business Modeling & develop Technical Design documents. Thorough experience in N-tier application development, Objected Oriented Analysis Design (OOAD) and Development. Extensive experience with Active Director (AD) Development with 4+ years experience. Experience in design and development of reports using SQL Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Reports, MS Excel etc. Extensive experience in designing and developing SharePoint intranet portals using SharePoint 2007 and 2010. Have rich experience of building websites using third party tools such Telerik, DevExpress and Infragistics. Solid Experience in RDBMS includes Oracle, SQL Server & database programming skills including creating Stored Procedures, Views, User Defined Functions using T-SQL, PL/SQL & data connectivity using ODBC, ADO.NET, LINQ and MS Entity Framework. Have experience of solving complex problems and pushing difficult projects through to a successful conclusion within tight deadlines. Capable of rapidly learning new technologies and processes, and successfully applying them to projects and operations. Extensive working experience of VSS, TFS, SubVersion and Microsoft Enterprise Library. Strong experience of Continuation Integration with Jenkins. Strong Internet Information Service configuration (IIS) experience and System Integrations. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Languages:  C#.NET, VB.NET, ASP.NET, VB, XML/XSL/XSLT, PL/SQL, T-SQL .Net Technologies:  .NET Framework 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0/1. x, ADO.NET, WCF, WPF, Web Services, Ajax, Silverlight. Database:  MS SQL Server 2008/2005/2000, Oracle 8i/9i, MS Access, NoSql Databases (MongoDB and Solr). Operating System:  Windows 2008/ 2003/2000/ XP/NT, MS DOS Reporting Tools:  Crystal Report XI/9/8.x, Data Reports, SQL Data Report Service Web Server:  IIS 7/6, MS Office SharePoint Services 2007 OOAD:  OOAD with UML Hardware:  System Assembling & Troubleshooting, Software Installation, Network Administration. Others:  VB 6.0, ADO, ODBC, Visual Source Safe, DTS, Team Foundation Server, MS Office PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, PA Lead Programmer Responsibilities: Architecture application in Multi layer and n-tier architecture. Performing as Lead Programmer and integration engineer. Leading a team of 3 offshore developers. Actively involving in Management Console’s UI, business logic and database design. Actively involving in AppScript StoreFront development. Integrating AppScript’s StoreFront, Management Console, IMS scoring applications with Jenkins and SVN. Configuring Jenkins for Automatic Continuous Integration ( CI ). Designing and developing this application using ASP.NET MVC 4. Designing and developing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) services using Rest based WCF web service and WebAPI ( restful ). Developing Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Constraints, Indexes and Views using SQL Server 2008 to maintain Business Logic and enforce Data Integrity. (T-SQL). Actively involved in UI, business logic and database design. Writing Functional Specifications and Technical Specifications. Designed and developed this application using MVC 4 Designed and developed Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) services using Rest based WCF web service. Developing Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Constraints, Indexes and Views using SQL Server 2008 to maintain Business Logic and enforce Data Integrity. (T-SQL). Providing post production support. Developed detailed Project planning, scoping, analyze requests for modifications, develop and design standards. I have handled this project as application is small and has product owner has given enough time to deliver product. Designed Developed and deployed application using ASP.NET MVC and hosted in IIS. Interaction with Functional Owners for requirements gathering. Designed, developed and deployed WCF Rest based web services. Providing post production support. Developed detailed Project planning, scoping, analyze requests for modifications, develop and design standards. Interaction with Functional Owners for requirements gathering. Designed, Developed and deployed application using Visual Studio . Providing post production support. Designed, Developed and deployed application using ASP.NET MVC and hosted in IIS Lead 2 onsite development members. Interaction with Functional Owners for requirements gathering. Design and Develop databases using SQL Server 2008. Design and Develop databases using Vertica. Designed, developed and deployed WCF Rest based web services. Developed detailed Project planning, scoping, analyze requests for modifications, develop and design standards. Interaction with Functional Owners for requirements gathering. Designed, Developed and deployed application using asp.net MVC 4. Design and Develop databases using Vertica. Designed, developed and deployed WCF Rest based web services. Analysis, requirement gathering, Design and Development of Client / Server Applications. Actively involved in UI, business logic and database design. Design, Develop, Deploy and maintain Microsoft .Net software application in Linux operating system using Mono.Net Design and Develop databases using SQL Server, Oracle 10g/11g, NoSql databases (MongoDB and Solr) Develop and Deploy web based .Net applications in Mono.Net (Linux OS). Setting up and configuring multiple SOLR and MongoDB instances Defining SOLR index schemas, generating index documents for Solr and MongoDB. Dynamically ranking search result using eDisMax (for auto complete feature) in Solr. Design and Develop Service OrientedArchitecture (SOA) applications using Windows Communication Foundation and Web Services ( RESTFul) Environment: C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET 4.0, WCF, AJAX, XML, Visual Studio 2010, .NET Framework 4.0, SQL Server 2008, NoSql databases (MongoDB, Solr), Mono.Net, Windows Server 2008, RedHat Linux, JavaScript, jQuery, Web Services, Agile and Scrum methodology. Confidential, Washington, DC Sr. Programmer Analyst Responsibilities: Responsible for adding new features and update existing system which built on Desktop and Web application. Analysis, requirement gathering, Design and Development of Client / Server Applications. Interaction with Functional Owners for requirements gathering. Modify and Add features to SharePoint portal using MOSS 2010 Design and Develop application using C# and ASP.NET MVC (Razor view). Design and Develop database, SP, UDF, Views using SQL Server 2012. Design and Develop Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) applications using Windows Communication Foundation and Web Services (RESTFul, SOAP and XML). Design and Develop SSIS and SSRS components using SQL Server 2012 for data integration and data reports. Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4.5, WCF, AJAX, XML, Visual Studio 2012, .NET Framework 4.5, SQL Server 2012, Windows Server, JavaScript, MOSS 2010, jQuery, Web Services, Agile and Scrum methodology. Confidential, Grand Rapids, MI .Net Lead Programmer Analyst Responsibilities: Analysis, requirement gathering, Design and Development of Client / Server Applications. Leading a Team of 2 offshore team members and 1 onsite team member. Reviewing and mentoring the code of Team Members. Interaction with Functional Owners for requirements gathering. Involving in Designing and Development of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) services using WCF. Creating and consuming WCF services (service contract, operation contract and data contract). Actively involving in UI, business logic and database design. Providing support and enhancements to the existing systems. Design and Develop systems using WinForms, WebForms and WPF. Writing Functional Specifications and Technical Specifications. Developing Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Constraints, Indexes and Views using SQL Server 2008 to maintain Business Logic and enforce Data Integrity. (T-SQL). Environment: C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET 4.0, WCF, AJAX, XML, Visual Studio 2010, .NET Framework 4.0, SQL Server 2008, Windows Server 2008, Java Script, jQuery, Web Services, Agile and Scrum methodology, Enterprise Library 5. Confidential, West Chester, PA Sr. Programmer Responsibilities: Involving in complete SDLC from requirement gathering to Deployment. Reviewing and mentoring the code of Team Members. Interaction with Functional Owners for requirements gathering. Involving in Designing and Development of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) services using WCF. Creating and consuming WCF services (service contract, operation contract and data contract). Actively involving in UI, business logic and database design. Writing Functional Specifications and Technical Specifications. Developing Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Constraints, Indexes and Views using SQL Server 2008 to maintain Business Logic and enforce Data Integrity. (T-SQL). Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4.0, WCF, AJAX, XML, Visual Studio 2010, .NET Framework 4.0, SQL Server 2008, Windows Server 2008, Java Script, jQuery, Web Services, Telerik RAD Controls, Agile and Scrum methodology, Enterprise Library 5. Confidential, Sacramento, CA Lead Programmer Responsibilities: Leading a team of 5 developers. Involved in complete SDLC from requirement gathering to Deployment. Reviewing and mentoring the code of Team Members. Interaction with Functional Owners for requirements gathering. Involving in Designing and Development of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) services using WCF. Writing Functional Specifications and Technical Specifications. Created and Consumed WCF services. Designing and Developing SharePoint sites as per the Functional and Technical Team requirements using MOSS 2007. Developing Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Constraints, Indexes and Views using SQL Server 2008 to maintain Business Logic and enforce Data Integrity. (T-SQL). Designed and Developed SQL Server 2008 SSIS packages for data integration. Designed and Developed various reports using SQL Server 2008 SSRS. Environment: C#, ASP.NET 4.0, WCF, AJAX, XML, Visual Studio 2010, .NET Framework 4.0, SQL Server 2008, Windows Server 2008, Java Script, Web Services, MOSS 2007, Agile and Scrum methodology. Confidential, Chicago, IL Lead Programmer Responsibilities: Leading a team of 4 developers. Managing the Task Assignment and Sprint Planning for the resources. Conducting daily stand-up SCRUM meetings with the other developers. Created Intranet sites & developed Patients’ Demographics Information Site using MOSS 2007. Provides expert-level advice and on SharePoint related issues. Interaction with Business Owners for requirements & Review; Mentor code of Team Members. Designing and Development of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) services using WCF. Write Functional Specifications and Technical Specifications. Creation of custom module for DotNetNuke. Implemented User control to manage security in SharePoint site and Oracle tables to keep track of security through SharePoint UI. Designed Dashboards with use of excel services web parts to display data through pie charts. Used Silverlight 3 (Data Grid, Charting, Data Form), and Visual Studio 2008 to provide rich Graphic User Interface (GUI) for customers and RIA WCF Service for data integration. Used Excel Services to display data for admissions site web parts. Integrate Document Libraries with Microsoft Outlook Express 2007. Developed various Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Constraints, Indexes and Views using SQL Server to maintain Business Logic and enforce Data Integrity. (T-SQL). Created SSIS packages for extract data from excel, Access and Sql Server to transform to SQL Server Created various reports using SSRS. Lead of a team of 4 developers. Managed the task assignment and sprint planning for the resources. Conducted daily stand-up SCRUM meetings with the other developers. Reviewed and mentored the code of other developers. Used Silverlight 3 (DataGrid, Charting, DataForm), and Visual Studio 2008 to provide rich Graphic User Interface (GUI) for customers. Developed WebParts for SharePoint Portal using MOSS 2007. Design and Development of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) services using WCF. Write Functional Specifications and Technical Specifications. Developed various Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Constraints, Indexes and Views using SQL Server to maintain Business Logic and enforce Data Integrity. (T-SQL). Designed and Developer Reports using SQL Server Reporting Services 2005 (SSRS). Created DTS packages using SSIS to extract data from excel, Access to transform to SQL Server. Created various reports using SSRS. Responsible for the Design, Document and Implementation the User Requirement Database Design and Development using SQL Server 2005. Development used WCF (Web Service), C#, .NET Framework 3.5 Write Functional Specifications and Technical Specifications. Creation and Consumption of Web Services. Designed and Developer Reports using Sql Server Reporting Services (SSRS) Design and Develop User Interface (WebForms) using C#. Creating Custom Module for DotNetNuke Created Custom Timer Jobs to update the SharePoint lists with data from registrars sql table. Developed various Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Constraints, Indexes and Views using SQL Server to maintain Business Logic and enforce Data Integrity. (T-SQL). Created DTS packages using SSIS to extract data from excel, Access & Sql Server to transform to SQL Server Created various reports using SSRS. Requirement gathering & scoping, Use Case analysis, design, development, testing, delivery and support. Database development using SQL Server 2005. Development used C#, WCF, ASP.NET, .NET Framework 3.5 / 2.0 Write functional specifications and technical specifications. Created .aspx, .ascx, .asmx pages using C#, C# using .NET Framework 3.5/2.0 Creation and Consumption of Web Services Creating Custom Module for DotNetNuke Design and Develop User Interface (Web Forms) using C#, ASP.NET. Developed various Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Constraints, Indexes and Views using SQL Server to maintain Business Logic and enforce data integrity. (T-SQL). Used Java Script for client side validation along with server side validation controls. Used Ajax Framework 1.0 and .Net 3.5 Created SSIS packages to extract data from excel, Access & Sql Server to transform to SQL Server Created various reports using SSRS. Used Silverlight 3 (DataGrid, Charting, DataForm), and Visual Studio 2008 to provide rich Graphic User Interface (GUI) for customers. Customization of existing modules using DotNetNuke (DNN) Designing customized websites in MS SharePoint 2003 for finance and marketing department. Environment: C#, ASP.NET, WCF, AJAX, XML, VisualStudio.NET 2008/2005, .NET Framework 3.5/ 2.0, Java Script, Webservices, SharePoint 2003, DotNet Nuke, SSIS, SSRS, SQL Server (T-SQL), Windows XP Confidential, Salem, OR Sr. Programmer Responsibilities: Design, development, Unit integration, System Testing, debug & troubleshooting the application. Interacting with the Business and Operations to carry out SDLC Processes. Attended review meetings for Business requirement documents and Function documents and documented the design docs for the same. Design and development of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) services using WCF. Database development using SQL Server 2005. Used ADO.NET sync framework, SQL Server Compact DB, SQL Server change tracking and WCF to create sync service and local cache database to speed up the loading the data and business validation and synchronize it. Development used C#, ASP.NET 2.0, .NET Framework 2.0 and SQL Server Develop technical documentation including Use Cases, Work-flow Diagrams using OO Methodology (UML, MS Visio). Developed various Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Constraints, Indexes and Views using SQL Server to maintain Business Logic and enforce Data Integrity. (TSQL). Created SSIS packages to extract data from excel, Access and Sql Server to transform to SQL Server Created various reports using SSRS Environment: C#, ASP.NET 2.0, WCF, AJAX, XML, VisualStudio.NET 2005, .NET Framework 2.0, UML, MS Visio, SSIS, SSRS, SQL Server (T-SQL), Windows XP Confidential  Software Developer Responsibilities: Requirement analysis and system study for the conversion. Study Functional documentation and develop technical design documents using UML/MS Visio. Designed and Developed various UI screens (over 60 web forms) using ASP.NET Developed various components for Business Logic using C#. Integrated LDAP using Active Directory for security purposes. Designed and developed over 120+ reports using Crystal Reports. Developed the database connectivity using ADO.NET. Developed various stored procedures and triggers using TSQL/SQL Server. Develop various queries and make changes in Queries (SQL Server). Developed DTS package to transfer data to webserver; Testing and maintenance. Responsible for creating Web Forms using ASP.NET, MS Visual Studio .NET, C#.NET, XML. Used ADO.NET dataset for updating and interacting with Database. Responsible for Writing Code behind business logic in C#.NET for ASP.NET pages. Developed various stored procedures using SQL Server. Wrote and executed SQL Server stored written in T-SQL. Implemented Stored Procedures call in the business layer-using ADO.Net for use of Web layer. Developed DTS package to transfer data to web server. Designed and developed various reports using Crystal Reports. Testing and maintenance. Environment: ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, VS.NET, ActiveX, XML, HTML/DHTML, Crystal Reports 9, DTS, IIS, TSQL, SQL Server 2005/2000, Windows XP Confidential  IT Programmer / System Administrator Responsibilities: Analyzed, understood & generated functional and technical specifications according to need of the business architect and end-users. Designed and Developed various UI screens (Webforms and Winforms) using C# and ASP.NET. Use the validation controls for Front End Validation using .NET. Developing .NET components, user controls, custom control using C#. Developed Business logic & application codes in C#; Used ADO.NET to connect to database. Developed various reports using Crystal Reports; multiple Stored Procedures in TSQL/SQL Server 2000; Testing and maintenance. Analyzed, understood & generated technical specifications according to need of the business architect. Designed and Developed the User Interfaces using ASP.NET Developed Business logic and application codes in VB.NET Use the validatin controls for Front End Validation using Visual Studio.NET. Using ADO.NET technology (sqlConnection, sqlCommand, sqlParameter, sqlDataReader, sqlDataAdapter ) to connect to database. Testing and maintenance. Environment: ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS, T-SQL, SQL Server 2000, MS Access Confidential  Junior Programmer Responsibilities: Developed various UI Screens including data entry screens using VB Responsible for fixing various issues on the front-end using VB Developed code for the application business logic using VB/COM+ Developed various reports using Crystal Reports. Used ADO to connect to backend databaseDeveloped various stored procedures using SQL Server 2000. Developed various SQL Queries, stored procedures and triggers using T-SQL Testing, Bug Tracking and maintenance. Requirement analysis and system study for the conversion. Database design and development using SQL Server Developed various User Interfaces using VB Developed various classes and code for the application using VB Developed various reports using Crystal Reports. Used ADO to connect to backend database SQL Server. Developed various SQL Queries, stored procedures and triggers using T-SQL Testing, Bug Tracking and maintenance. Environment: VB 6.0, Crystal Reports 8.0, TSQL, SQL Server 2000, MS Access, Windows 2000 