SUMMARY: Overall 8+ years’ experience in design, development, coding and testing of business/commercial applications using Microsoft.Net, Html5, CSS3, JQuery and AngularJS. Proficient in a wide range of Internet/Intranet, C++, web, Ecommerce, Client/Server technologies like XML/XSLT, .Net Framework, CLR, Using XML in .Net, C#, VB .Net, ASP .Net, .Net Security, .Net Remoting, WCF Services, WPF, Entity Framework, LINQ, ADO.Net, COM/DCOM, MTS/COM+, SOAP, .Net, VB 6 and scripting using VB Script and JavaScript, MS Visio, MS Project, SOAP Toolkit 3.0, Microsoft Office System, Word. Solid level of experience in interacting with end users and getting the requirements. Proficient in developing applications using client side technologies like Html5, CSS3, JQuery and AngularJS. Proficient in developing applications server side applications using ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web Forms. Expertise in Database Design and Database Programming using SQL Server 2005/2008/2012 and Oracle. Good amount of experience in Risk assessment applications with financial background. Extensive experience on modern front - end template frameworks for JavaScript including Bootstrap, JQuery, AngularJS etc. Expert level of experience in developing n-tire applications using SOAP and Restful Services. Expert level of experience in developing windows/web application using C#. Net, ASP.NET Web Forms and ASP.NET MVC4.0 with Razor View engine. Extensive experience with AngularJS, creating custom directives, decorators, and services to interface with both restful and legacy network services also DOM applications. Developed rich, interactive GUIs in WPF, leveraging the full power of WPF to create GUIs of exceptionally high quality. Used PowerShell to manage SSIS packages across multiple SQL Server instances For Ecommerce application worked with web development teams to create new property vanity sites. Developed content by writing articles and adding pictures Used JQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms. Worked with IIS and .NET Assemblies during application deployment. Hands on experience in using Web Server - IIS, Visual SourceSafe, Data Transformation Services (DTS). Experience in developing MVVM based applications to implement WPF based desktop application development. Experience in Cloud computing window azure. Developed and executed test plans and test cases Experience with configuration, customization, and development of e-commerce platform Involved with UI enhancements in mobile development process. Developed distributed applications using .Net Remoting, Web Services and WCF services. Extensive experience in development Workflows. Developed JSON object from XML using JQuery Plug-In xml2json.js. To create self-updating UI used Knockout JS from JavaScript objects. Experience in Visual Studio 2015 using Frame work 4.6. Wrote custom JQuery plugins and developed JavaScript functions to build user interface Used the default tools in SSIS for developing and testing programs Experience PL/SQL in developing AJAX .Net applications by using Framework 2.0, 3.5 and 4.0. Very good understanding of WPF and Silverlight concepts. Developed the customer service model, oversaw redesign of ecommerce website Expertise in UWP using Design Patterns. Worked with JSON to pass the JavaScript objects from server to web application. Used ASP.NET MVC 3.5/4.0 framework to support the use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself. Excellent skills in writing stored procedures, T-SQL Queries, functions, triggers, views and schemas. Experience writing angular.js code for developing Single page applications (SPA), used several in built language core directives, expressions and modules. Developed background process infrastructure on top of Windows Azure Queues Ability to work in-groups as well as independently with minimal supervision. Excellent problem solving, analytical AWS and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of flash software for Python graphics and navigation interfaces with much interact ability with the user. Designed and Developed Java Script frame work which is wrapper on top of JQUERY frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets. Designed and developed desktop and web application using WPF with MVVM Used the PowerShell scripting to get the most consistent production environment. Extensively used CRM to help client track the requirements in the project Expertise in working in service oriented architecture such as creating and consuming WCF Rest, Windows Communication Foundation WCF Contracts over HTTP, HTTPS and TCP/IP protocols and creating and consuming XML Web Services over SOAP in .NET using VB.NET or C .NET. Demonstrated the ability to work diligently under pressure to meet deadlines Good Expertise in object oriented design principles and Agile & SCRUM methodologies. Worked closely with owner, marketing team, and back-end developer UWP to develop a strategy and plan website releases. Effective team player and MTFexcellent communication skills with insight to determine priorities, schedule work and meet critical deadlines. TECHNICAL SKILLS: .Net Technologies: C# .Net, ASP.Net, VB.net, ADO.NET, Web/Windows Service, WCF, WPF, MVC and AJAX using Framework 3.0/3.5/4.0 SSRS Languages: C, C++, VC++, C# .Net, VB, VB.Net RDBMS / Database: SQL server2005/2008, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, Azure, Sybase and MS Access Middleware: XML, JSON Scripting Languages: VB Script, Java Script, JQuery, CSS and python, type-script, HTML, Agile, AngularJSDesign Tools: UML, Visio, Rational XDE, Rational Purify GUI Tools: Visual Studio 2003/ 2005/2008/2012, SSMS 2005/2008/2012, TOAD, SQL Developer, Expression Blend Technologies: COM+, MSMQ and Active Directory Other Tools: Enterprise Library Configuration Tool, Refactor, FxCop, Tidal Scheduler, HP Service Manager,Resharper, Microservices PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Confidential, New Jersey Sr.Net Developer Responsibilities: Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#, Entity Framework, and SQL. Microsoft Azure PaaS Services, Strategy and Planning Develop Business Layer, Data Layer and WCF services for the integration module. Used routing events to invoke the handlers and attached property for the presentation of user interface in WPF using XAML. Worked with complex & dynamic presentation layers using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, Themes, Skins, Master Pages, client side scripting using JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS, Agile,Node.JS. Setup WCF and Entity Framework n-tier architectures to eliminate bottlenecks of data transfer, making service oriented architecture possible. Experienced with deployments, Maintenance and troubleshooting applications on Microsoft Cloud Infrastructure Azure Converted manual functional and regression scripts to keyword data-driven automated scripts. Extensive experience in WPF with all the programming and technologies integrated into C# Asp.Net framework Used AngularJS to develop client side Python applications using JavaScript in a clean Model View Controller (MVC) way. For complex event processing in the streaming data in cloud we used Azure analytics Implement a multithreaded architecture that allowed at least 8 separate tasks to query, calculate, and return asynchronously and then update the user interface. Used Knockout JS to handle data-driven interfaces. Automated, modified, executed, debugged and analyzed test results using Win Runner and Silk Test to uncover defects in software applications. Brief experience on implementing the AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes. Working on creating Rest Services using ASP.NET Web API and C#. Factor threading into a simple, easy to use system that includes a user notification that the system was working with an asynchronous process by showing an animated "busy" animation that is unique. Worked with AngularJS Promises, Filters, UI Router, Directives and developed some of the custom directives (elements, Attributes and classes) using angular.js. Developed certain features of the application functionality i.e. CRUD (Create, read, update, delete) features using Angular JS and Responsive Design Used Knockout JS inJavaScript based on MVVM pattern to build rich and responsive website. Involved in a fully scalable WPF based client/server application using C#, WCF, Entity Framework and SQL Server. Involved in change management like from one project to another. Bug fixes for supporting Virtualization and High viability support for storage device from TCP/IP networking point of view. Bug fixes relating to Address configuration, virtual IP(VIP), source address selection Event logging with Nlog because it is a cross-platform. Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML. Dynamic CRM mainly helped in tracking and basic commands using voice for simple tasks. Synchronous and Asynchronous post backs for all ASP.NET pages using AJAX.NET. Used LINQ for filtering the data from SQL Server Data Base 2012. Created views using Razor, Bootstrap and CSS. For quick generation used SSRS Data Binding using jQuery UI and JavaScript templating Leveraged AngularJS resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces. Created custom directives for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads, etc.) Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory Used Azure stream analytics to handle high event throughput Migrating live application in the Azure cloud. Designed development of presentation layers using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery UI. Used JavaScript and jQuery UI for validating the input given to the Agile user interface. Used SSIS for data extraction Python and transformation. Implemented Multithreading Concepts to improve the application Performance Web design with controls, UI and validations. Worked with Web API to provide services to HTTP requests. Good knowledge of Knockout JS as it is open source and works with any web framework. Deployed the Web application to the IIS 7.5 test environment. Using WinForms used third party controls for better UI Used Angular JS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope. Worked extensively with Microsoft Enterprise Library for Caching, Data Access, and Security, NUnit-Testing. Used jQuery UI to build accordion style content, drag and drop functionality, calendar, popup and modal windows Used TFS as a Code Repository and followed source code handling practices like Check-In daily basis. Involved in unit testing and code reviews while development and fixing the bugs. Worked with SSIS to perform certain operations on SQL server as well as to maintain the database. Used AngularJS and JQuery UI library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application. Used Nlog for logging purposes Environment: VisualStudio.NET 2015, WCF, PAAS, JQuery, Entity framework, AngularJS, ASP.NET, C# .NET Framework 4/4.5, XML, HTML, WPF, ASP.NET MVC 6, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, TFS,Three Tier Architecture, SQL SERVER 2014, SSIS, DTS, IIS 7.5, JavaScript, Crystal Reports, Windows Server, Agile / Scrum, NUnit-Test, CRM. Client: Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, NJ Projects: WMW (Wealth Management Workstation) Role: .Net Developer Global Wealth & Investment Management (GWIM) provides comprehensive wealth management to affluent and high-net- worth clients. It also provides retirement and benefit plan services, philanthropic management and asset management to individuals and institutions. Merrill Edge provides access to Merrill Lynch investing and Bank of America banking. Make your own Financial decisions with Merrill Edge self-directed investing or instead seek theadvice of a Financial Solutions Advisor in the Merrill Edge Advisory Center. Responsibilities: Develop and maintains scalable Microsoft-based web applications and technologies for new and existing product offerings and services. Developed WPF services using MVP pattern to retrieve data from Data layer. Used CRM package to follow-up the activities, transactions, sales along with the repository of customer data. Migrated SQL Server 2008 database to Windows Azure SQL Database and updating the Connection Strings. Developed PowerShell modules in C# and PowerShell featuring commandlets to interface with Secret Server, Lync, and SQL. Built relationships with vendors to manage all ecommerce technology partners. Integrated several third-party technologies: site search, email marketing, and testing software. Analyzed Ecommerce site performance and initiated improvements, technical projects, and creative changes. Developing the view models and controller actions method to fetch the data from the back end rest services and send it as Json objects to the views. Proficient in Implemented WCF Contacts in the project for TCP/IP protocols to supplement disconnected architecture. Integrated WCF endpoints for http, https and TCP/IP protocols. Used TFS for Source Control, Team Build, Reporting, Work Item Tracking and Project Portal. Proposed and Implemented lot of JQuery Plug-ins like alpha numeric, masking, JQuery UI and Block/Unblock UI. Designed and developed UI using ASP. NET/MVC5 Web API, CSS, AngularJS Implemented ASP.NET MVC with JQuery UI and JSON also used JQuery-Ajax to make asynchronous calls. Completely responsible for automation using QTP 8.2 with .Net add-in for this project to build the customized scripts. Developed rich UI for the application using Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) and done data binding using one way, two ways and one way to source data binding. Designed, modeled and architected multi-threaded, enterprise n-tier software agent using WCF web service hosted in a Windows service and worked with the maintenance of TFS server. Handled user input using WinForms. Responsibilities with Ecommerce include creating a strong brand image, encouraging online sales, managing the online transaction system, improving user experience, nurturing prospects Running a utility to check on premise device is ready to move in azure. Running a utility to check the cost of azure. Developed JavaScript (jQuery) tabs and main navigation menus using CSS sprites technique. Used AngularJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA). Due to the facility in azure streaming analytics, used for built-in recovery problems in case of failures or business in continuity. Maintained and updated QTP existing scripts for latest version of software, also implemented new functionality for existing VB scripts. Managed bug tracking and provide informative updates as requested. Worked with back enddevelopers to implement AJAX and dynamic HTML functionality in JQuery UI. Worked on building the Views using AngularJS and followed MVVM pattern. Querying the databases using the PowerShell scripts Created complex WinForms presentation layer using WPF and MVVM design pattern. To enhance navigation and user interface used Microsoft dynamic CRM as a great tool. Planning how and when the changes will be communicated and organize the communication changes in the change management process. Deploying and managing applications in Datacenter, Virtual environment and Azure platform as well. Used SSRS to generate reports from databases. Developed a 3-Tier windows application by coding presentation layer, business layer and dataaccess layer using WPF, C#.Net 4.0 and SQL Server 2012. Handled UI with Angular JS (MVC framework) to control the page layout. Involved in implementation of Exception handling on User Interface Layer. Developed a 3-Tier windows application by coding presentation layer, business layer and dataaccess layer using WPF, C#.Net 4.0 and SQL Server 2012 and used Nlog version 4 for quality logging to database. Very helpful when used Azure streaming analytics for connectivity to Azure hubs and low cost, provides the data. Used JQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree. Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery UI framework. DeployedWCFservices onAzure cloud Bootstrap used along with AngularJS in creating the Application. Involved in implementation of Exception handling on User Interface Layer. Front-end designing and controlling with UI using ASP. NET/MVC5 Web API, CSS, AngularJS. For better look and feel of windows developed the application using WinForms Migrating physical infrastructure with application in the Azure cloud. To integrate with portals used Dynamic CRM to improve customer service. Analyzed requirements, detailed design and formulated test plan for the functional testing of the application. Implemented PowerShell remoting and script execution Used AJAX to control the Post back event, thus enhancing the web server performance. Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the mode Involved in Configuring IIS web server, deployed project on the web server and handled server configuration issues. Environment: VisualStudio.NET 2012/2013, WCF, JQuery, Entity framework, AngularJS, ASP.NET, C# .NET Framework 4/4.5, XML, HTML, WPF, ASP.NET MVC 5/ 4, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, TFS, Three Tier Architecture, SQL SERVER 2012 R2, SSIS, DTS, IIS 7.0, JavaScript, Crystal Reports, Windows Server, Agile / Scrum, NUnit-Test, CRM. Client: Morgan Stanley, Manhattan New York, NY Projects: Morgan Stanley Client Serv Role: .Net Developer Morgan Stanley is an American multinational financial services corporation that, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, providessecurities products and services to customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions, and individuals. The company operates in three business segments: Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group, and Asset Management. Responsibilities: Duties include designing, planning, developing and deploying Microsoft .NET based solutions that meet or exceed client expectations with Industry quality and coding standards. Developing the applications to meet performance requirements as per mentioned SLAs and with IT&S security standards. Converted .Net application to Microsoft Azure Cloud Service Project as part of cloud deployment. Adapted web application to run in Windows Azure against SQL Azure using Azure Queues for background processing Developed the application using HTML5, C#, ASP.NET MVC, Bootstrap, jQuery. Developed high-level test plans by incorporating user profiles, configurations, environments, risks, test scenarios, schedules and analysis and presentation of results. Consumed Web services using WCF and WPF for online transactions using C# and exposed them through SOAP and HTTP. In-depth knowledge of secure payment gateways and other safety components applicable for e-trading websites. Utilized various JQUERY UI plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive. Conducted testing manually and generated automated test scripts using QTP on web based applications. Extensively involved in developing components for Business, using Windows Communication Foundation WCF REST as well as consuming third-party REST services. Converted Legacy applications (PLUS) which was been written in asp and VB to C#. Designed & built a WCF services for an Interactive Decision System, implemented multithreading to simulate an Asynchronous Batch Run. Exposed Virtual machines and cloud services in to the Internet using Azure External Load Balancer For very powerful layout used Silverlight. Developed the WPF application in PRISM framework, thus creating loosely coupled components for the application. For the caching process used multi-threading concepts. Solved problems using a combination of JavaScript, JSON, and JQUERY UI Planning the involvement and project activities of the change sponsor in the change management. Created and consumed Web services using XML and hosted in IIS to communicate with the business layer objects via SOAP. Use Window azure to deploy the application on cloud and managing the session Experience with configuration, customization, and development of e-commerce platform. Participated in designing and developing of the data access layer using NHibernete (ORM). Involved in writing unit testing using NUnit, doing code reviews while development and fixing the bugs raised by Quality Control. UsedGIT Repositorywith VS extensions for version control and source code maintenance needs. Knowledge of IP addressing and TCP/IP networking. Worked to convert application into WPF component and implement existing function enhancement. Developed distributed applications using WCF, Web Services and Web API (using REST architecture) Extensive use of SQL Profiler and Query Analysis Tools for T-SQL Query Optimization and debugging. Used JSLint tool to review the JQuery UI/JavaScript code to make client side script as per industry standards. Involved and supported in UAT phases for the whole application and making sure that the application is developed as per the needs and requirements. Setting up Connection Strings and connecting SQL Server AZURE Databases from locally Installed SQL Server Management Studio(SSMS) for Developers Developed DTS packages for data transformation between CSV files and Excel sheets using SSIS. Designed and Developed reports using SSRS 2008 R2, 2014, 2016. Used Grid MVC with Strongly Typed View Models to provide more flexible, editable and sortable grid view to increase user interaction. Experience in Object Oriented Concepts and Knowledge on Design Patterns like Model View Controller (MVC), Factory method etc. Used Razor View Engine and HTML helper class Controls with MVC Experience of configuring and managing source using SVN, GIT. Identifying the challenges for hosting applications in windows Azure (PaaS) and suggesting the possible changes required in applications to use Azure capabilities. Updating the present SAAS applications with the customers and their access. Worked with Tableau tool for reporting services. Used Silverlight for various themes, animations and UI purpose Worked on development modules using Web API and Angular JS. Wrote Data Access Layer Methods (ADO.NET), T-SQL Queries, Store Procedures, and SQL User Defined functions for fetching Transaction details, Customer Details, and Product Configuration data. GeneratedSub-Reports,drill down reports, Drill through reports and Parameterized reports and involved in NUnit testing. Environment: ASP.NET MVC, C#, LINQ, SQL Server 2008 R2, SSRS, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, T-SQL, XML, SSIS, NHibernete (ORM), Prism Framework, SAAS, Internet Information Server 7.0(IIS), MS Visual Studio 2005/2010, GIT, Web API. Client: MAX, Bangalore, India Project: Healthcare Information System (HIS). Role: Application Developer. MAX Healthcare Information System is a client server application developed in C#. NET. MAX has a multiple location and the server is running at main location and all the client are connecting to the server. Responsibilities: Prepared Functional Specifications, Design Specifications document, and UML Diagrams. Developed project case study and documented the requirements. Designed and Developed application using .NET framework 2.0, Object Oriented Concepts(C#) and n-tier Architecture Designed and developed RESTful style web services to manipulate dynamic datasets using AJAX calls in ecommerce application. Deployed and supported the application code across various system servers Participated in the entire phase of development cycle from design, testing, and implementation Worked with e-commerce databases to develop shopping cart manager Proficient in programming JavaScript data capture and event handling methods via the DOM event model Used jQuery UI core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application. Application customizations are done by altering the configuration settings using SAAS Worked on .NET Interoperability with COM Components for some external information. Designed & Developed GUI (Graphical user interface) for all pages in Web forms using AJAX, HTML, User Controls, CSS and JavaScript. Used Server Side Validation Controls and Client Side Validations (using JavaScript) for handling the form inputs. Created DTS Packages to import data from Flat Files into SQL Server Database. Used Agile Methodology for Application Development. Used SAAS to remotely run applications on client’s computers. Experienced mobile development using JQuery and event handlings Designed a user details tab in a web application using PHP. Participated in the entire phase of development cycle from design, testing, and implementation for the e-commerce website Worked with e-commerce databases to develop shopping cart manager Generated various claim related reports from SQL Server Database using Crystal Reports Tool. Worked on XSLT to transform XML into HTML. Layout management was made easy using WinForms Excellent Experience in writing Data Access Layers using ADO.net entity Frame Work and LINQ to SQL. Worked on SQL Server Analysis Services (OLAP) for Performance Tuning Operations. Developed Application in Multi-Threading Environment. Designed Ecommerce site architecture and defined template for newattributes and requirements. Involved in Web Service Development (XML, SOAP, WSDL). Worked on content providers in mobile development Maintained the current ecommerce website and added more appealing features Redesigned sections of the ecommerce website to ensure a more attractive and user-friendly experience Worked with PHP validations to validate the input from the client. Heavily used LINQ to SQL to retrieve data about Customers & Transactions. Developing website layout, application and functions layout Designing textual and graphical content including product illustrations for the e-commerce website Wrote T-SQL Statements, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, and Sequences to access data from database along with ADO.NET Class & Methods. Updated website content daily Used Ajax, JSON with jQuery UI for request data and response processing. Demonstrated the ability to work diligently under pressure to meet deadlines Developed e-commerce website and Web applications, encompassing design, coding, testing, and maintenance for this 250-person company. Performed actions (GET, POST) required to fill the form using PHP. Worked closely with owner, marketing team, and back-end developer to develop a strategy and plan website releases Environment: Visual Studio.NET 2005, C#.NET, ASP.NET 2.0, AJAX, T-SQL, SQL Server 2005, SSAS, OLAP, ADO.NET, XML, XSLT, SOAP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, Web forms and WinForms, Web service, SOA, SAAS, Visual Source Safe 6.0, SOA, MSMQ, Agile Methodology, Multi-Threading, MS VISIO, IIS 6.0, n-tier architecture Client: IBM, Bangalore Project: ACE Insurance (Tank Safe, Small Comp, eCPL) Role: Onsite Coordinator ACE-Insurance a web application used for booking, tracking and renewing Insurance policies of several items. Consists of several sites individually dealing in several types of insurable like, Auto Insurance, Industries etc. It covers all the aspects policies based on approximately 20 parameters, Reports, Renewing of policies. Responsibilities: Involved in Analysis, Design, Development and testing of application. Followed N-Tiered approach to make the application development flexible and extensible. Developed the modules in VS 2005 and ASP.NET, C++ and ADO.NET. Involved in retrieving data using LINQ to SQL and LINQ to Objects with ASP.NET, worked with the database using LINQ to SQL Implemented various abstract classes and interfaces in C++ Expertise in installing, developing, and deploying on application/web servers such as IIS 5.0/IIS 6.0/IIS7.0 Implemented Role-Based Security using Forms Authentication and Authorization. Wrote Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers to handle data manipulations using SQL. Created User controls, web controls in ASP.NET. Involved in web designing. Use JQuery for creating behavioral aspects of the web page. Implemented OOPS concepts using C++. Generated weekly reports using Crystal Reports. Implemented client side custom validation using JavaScript. Involved in bug finding and fixing and testing the modules by writing Unit Tests. Used VSS for controlling and maintaining the source code or document's version. Environment: C++, VB.Net, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, ASP, XML, SQL Server 2005, .Net Remoting, Visual Studio 2005, Microsoft Project, XML/SOAP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS 