SUMMARY Over 6+ years of works experience in Software designing and development of n - Tier Client/Server Web based Application domains using Microsoft .NET framework 3.0/ 3.5/4.0/4.5/4.6 . Has 2+ years of work experience as a SharePoint/.net developer Good understanding of Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts including Inheritance, Abstraction, Encapsulation and Polymorphism. Well versed in System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases from teh investigation of initial requirements through analysis, design, development and Support. Experince on Banking, HealthCare, Education domains. Adept in using Microsoft Technologies like C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, MVC …, Entity Framework, WCF, Web API RESTful Services, IIS …, SharePoint Server, SP Designer, Office 365. Extensive experience in designing web applications using HTML, HTML5, CSS3, BootStrap, Master Pages, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX. Proficient in storing and exchanging data using XML and JSON formats. Developed Single Page dynamic applications using teh AngularJS framework Proficient in developing systems built on SQL Server 2008/2012 using Tables, Triggers, Views and Stored Procedures in SQL and Database maintenance. Experience in using SQL Server Business Intelligence Solutions like SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services), SSIS (SQL Server Integration Service) & Crystal Reports. Good Exposure to Agile Scrum and Waterfall Methodologies. Implemented Singleton, Abstract and Factory Design patterns Planned and Organized testing phases including Unit testing (NUnit) & Integration testing, writing Test cases, generating Test scripts and reviewing test results & taking corrective actions, Bug analysis and fixes in Web-industry standards, trends. Hands-on experience in installing, configuring, and developing Microsoft SharePoint Server 2007/2010 with Windows SharePoint Services 3.0 (WSS 3.0) and in designing, implementing various SharePoint Web Parts, Event handlers, Master pages, Features, Content Types, sites, subsites, Custom Document Libraries, Lists and InfoPath 2010 workflows. Migration of SharePoint 2007 site to SharePoint 2010 using Database detach attach method. Experienced in using project management tools like TFS (Team Foundation Server). Worked on .net Custom tools like Telerik RAD control, Infragistics Components, DevExpress including AJAX control Toolkit and AJAX Extensions. Ability to work under minimal supervision, adhere to deadlines, excellent verbal, Interpersonal and Communication skills coupled with strong technical and problem-solving capabilities. TECHNICAL SKILLS Technologies\Rich GUI\: ASP.Net, ADO.Net, Entity Framework, LINQ, \HTML5, HTML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, \WCF, REST Web API, XML, JSON \JQuery, AngularJS, BootStrap \ Programming Languages\Frameworks\: C, C++, C#, T-SQL\Net 3.5/4.0/4.5/4.6 , NUnit Test 2.5/2.6/3.0\ Development Tools\Reporting Tools\: Visual Studio.NET 2008/2010/2013/2015 \Crystal Reports, SSIS, SSRS\ Databases\OOAD/Case Tools\: SQL Server 08-R2/12/14, MS Access 2010/\Enterprise Architect 4.0, Microsoft Visio 07/\ 2013, MongoDB\10/13\ Web Servers\Version management tools\: IIS 6.0 /7.0/8.0\Visual SourceSafe 6.0, TFS, GitHub\ Operating Systems\UI Designing Tools\: Windows 7,8,10, Windows Server 8R2/12, \Dream weaver, SharePoint Designer 10/13\ SharePoint Server 07/10, UNIX, Linux, \Mac OS X\ PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential - Cherry Hill, NJ Full stack .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in upgrading and testing present web application as per teh requirements. Worked on Agile methodology to meet time lines with quality deliverables. Designed and developed rich, enhanced, flexible and user interactive web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and validations using JavaScript, JQuery. Built Calender & Appointment system and Tasks system in teh customer portal using ASP.net MVC5 (C#) together with Entity Framework (CodeFirst) and Bootstrap. Consumed Web API REST-ful services for building service-oriented application hosted by IIS 8.0 Established single page dynamic application using AngularJS. Razor, JSON Web-Server controls were used to create View Engines. Used Ajax control toolkit on server control to avoid page Post back and Page flickering. Incorporated WebRTC JavaScript API to enable plugin free browser to browser communication to facilitate chat and file sharing. SQL Server 2014 was utilized as teh data repository and used LINQ to SQL writing data access classes, complex T-SQL Stored Procedures, triggers, views to capture and modify data. Implemented N-unit test cases and performed teh bug fixing. Generated periodic reports based on teh statistical analysis of teh data from various time frame and division using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and implemented Report viewer to integrate SSRS reports with ASP.NET web forms. Developed XML Web services to capture data from a database and consumed them to display teh captured data to teh users using Infragistics grid controls. Managed version controlling using Team Foundation Server. Environment: MS VisualStudio 2015 IDE, C#, ASP.NET4.5, ADO.NET, WebAPI REST-ful Service, MVC5.0, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, AJAX, Entity Framework, NUnit testing, XML, JSON, SSRS, WebRTC, TFS, SQLServer2014, Windows Server 2012 Confidential - Barrington, IL Full stack .Net Developer Responsibilities: Involved in understanding user requirements, designing and developing teh web applications and back-end applications. Interacted with business analysts, end users and worked on teh application specifications to develop detailed functional, technical design, and test specifications that fully satisfy business requirements. Designed and developed user interface for web application and intranet application using Visual Studio 2013, ASP.NET, MVC 5.0, WCF, C#, HTML4, CSS3, AJAX. Used ADO.net for database related activities. Use Angular JS for making single page application. Performed Client and server side validations using JavaScript, JQuery. Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data, Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory. Used Ajax toolkit, Multi views, regular expressions, user search controls. Implemented windows and browser hosted applications, and rendered user interfaces using WPF. Applied Web Services and invoked them by using XML,SOAP and WSDL tool for creating proxy classes and for communicating with other application and components. Created new database objects like Stored procedures, Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes and Views using T-SQL in Development and Production environment for SQL 2012. Implemented Report viewer to integrate teh SSRS reports with teh ASP.Net web forms Managed version controlling using Team Foundation Server. Worked on Agile Environment to deliver higher-quality software. Environment: Visual Studio 2012, C#, .NET 4.0, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, MVC 5.0, LINQ, WCF, WPF, XML SOAP, JSON, TFS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Nunit, SQL, SQL Server 2012 Confidential .Net Lead Developer Relsponsibilities: Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in identifying teh requirements and defining teh business rules to user requirements. Developed web based User Interface using ASP.Net, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and implemented C# code for performing logical operations. Extensively used Bootstrap to implement responsive web pages compatibile to different devices. Involved in logical & physical database implementation, creating tables, stored procedures with Sql2010. Written code for Database Connectivity and interaction using ADO.net. Used web services for building services applications hosted by IIS. Developed test plan, Test cases, and Test scripts based on high-level and detailed designs using N-Unit. Interact with QA team to ensure teh defects are properly cleared to attain teh quality standards. Actively Participated in Team Meetings, frequently communicated with Business Analysts to clarify teh Business requirements. Visual Source Safe was used as teh version controlling system. Environment: C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, CSS3, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL 2010, N-Uinit framework, VSS, Visual Studio 2012 Confidential SharePoint/.Net Developer Responsibilities: Building new Business Applications and improving teh existing Confidential Website were 2 major responsibilities. Involved in understanding teh existing multi-dependency solution and to replicate that in development environment. Worked with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to build a brand new and lighter Master page for use of all business applications. Worked with JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery plugins like maps, pagination etc., to build a Locations directory. dis application interacts with a SharePoint list to query its input values. Worked with C# and Asp.net to build various Business Applications. All of these applications involved custom development using C# and heavy JavaScript coding. Worked with custom application pages, user controls, event handlers, SharePoint Designer workflows as a part of business application development. Built custom solutions to integrate SharePoint with a 3rd party social tool called Tibbr. Worked with an event handler to support teh process of Site Provisioning. dis as an automated process without any human intervention. Did monthly search reviews to track down most successful searches, most failed searched and act accordingly by adding best bets for a better user experience. Worked with quest tools to migrate sites, lists and libraries from one environment to another. Environment: SharePoint Server 2007 (SPS 2007), Visual Studio 2008, C#, .Net, Windows SharePoint Designer, Document libraries, Workflows, Master Pages, Excel services, .Net Framework, MS office 2007, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, PowerShell, Team Foundation Server, Quest tools Confidential .Net Developer Responsibilities: Worked in a development team across global regions with Scrum Agile methodology Done requirement Analysis and studied existing product behavior Microsoft Visual Studio 2008, Asp.net, C# are used to develop web-based applications and SQL Server 2008 to store data. Used XML Parser for parsing teh data retrieved from teh web service and tan merges that parsed data with teh database data to display combined result. Written stored procedures and functions to store and fetch required data Carried out Unit Testing, Integration Testing and reviewing test plan and test results Conduct UAT activity, Go Live and post implementation support. Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2008, Asp.Net, Team Foundation Server, C# .Net, XML Parser, JavaScript, SQL Server 2008 