SUMMARY 9 years of experience as a Software Developer. 3+ years of experience application development for IoT platforms. Having repositories in GitHub . Experience in AWS, Python, Groovy, NodeJS, MongoDB, MySQL. usingASP.NET,C#,ADOMD.NET,ADO.NET,VisualStudio.NET,Web Forms,Win Forms,Web Services, Silverlight,XML,XSD andXSLT. Expertise in developingWebFormsandWinFormsinC#andVBfor Microsoft windows platforms. Good Experience in implementing.NETframework version 3.5 application development. Good understanding ofWCF and WPF, Dynamic data and MVCapplication. Good experience inSilverlight 2.0using ConventionalAjaxin loadingXMLcontent and manipulation through DOM interface. Microsoft certified professional (MCSA) in SQL programming MS SQL Server 2012. Strong abilities inDesign Patterns, Database Design, Normalization, writingStored Procedures,handlingSQL CLR, Triggers, Views, FunctionsandSSIS/DTS Packages in MS SQL Serverand involved in all teh stages of System Development Life Cycle. Expertise in working with database tables, designing, views, writing store procedures and user defined functions to access database. Developed services usingWCF(Windows Communication Foundation) technologies withMicrosoft Enterprise library and Web service software factory. Experience in ASP.Net User Controls. Experience in implementingerror handling, exception management, tracingandloggingfeatures Has experience in designing web pages with teh use of HTML, Master Pages and CSS for styling teh web pages along with Java Script. Proficient in creating Data Grid using Grid View in ASP.Net. Has worked on cross platform applications using Silverlight technologies Experience in AGILE methodology for SDLC including scrum meetings, sprint planning and iterative approach of review and development. Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) requirements in waterfall model gathering, planning, analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of various software projects. Experience in working with development tools including Visual Studio 2005. Quick learner, exceptional problem - solving and troubleshooting capabilities. Excellent Team player with good Communication and Interpersonal skills. Pursuing Microsoft certification 70-46, 70-48 . Worked Freelance on developing IoT applications for home owners on Wink, Smarthings and Vera home automation platforms. Published 4 skills for Amazon Alexa platform for voice interactions to handle IoT requests related to South Hills blue line train schedule, Android Device command interface, Nest thermostat interface TECHNICAL SKILLS .NET Technologies: C#, ASP.Net, .Net Framework, ADO.Net, ADO.Net Entity Framework and WCF Web Technologies: ASP.Net, Web Services, Web Forms, Win Forms, HTML, XML, AngularJS, jQuery and CSS, REST API and OAUTH2 platforms for cross platform authentication and integration. Database: Access, SQL Server 2000, 2005, DTS, Oracle8i,MySQL,MongoDB IoT Platforms: Amazon Alexa, Wink, Smarthings and Vera IoT Scripting Languages: Python 3.0,Python 3.5, NodeJS, LUA and Groovy TOOLS: & UTILITIES: Visual Studio .NET, MATLAB Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, LINUX,Debian(Raspberry PI 1,2 and 3) Application Servers: IIS, Express Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile(Good Understanding) Versioning Tools: Visual Source Safe Design Patterns: MVC PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Senior Software Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in teh design, coding, document preparation, testing and deployment of application. Involved in developing and designing ASPpages, server side C# and client Side JScript and Excel files were saved on web server folder. Teh web application reads those files from server and shows on datagrid on client browser using jquery etc. Build ER diagram, developed and optimized teh database, tables in MongoDB. Deploy all teh output in Database. Uses BeautifulSoup to Scrape teh Websites. Scraper handles SSL, non-SSL URLs and all SSL related errors. Program check main domains to find out teh website related to a name. Build Error Handling Modules to Handle Errors. Uses libraries like xlrd, request, response, urllib2, regular expression. Having repository in GitHub Tasks Assignments from GitHub. Maintain project documentation and Technical documentation on Github Independent Project As FreeLancer Confidential Responsibilities: Involved in teh requirement gathering, design, coding, documentation(project(PSD) and technical(TSD)), testing and deployment of application. Direct interaction with Client. Build an ER diagram, developed and optimized teh database, tables in MySql Build parser in NodeJS as uses teh Asynchronous calls to optimize teh code. Used JSON for scalable, robust, extendable, generic, reusable output . Restful API connections made through Express. Understanding of MT103. After parsing and getting teh whole output in JSON we validate teh whole message looking for each and every field especially Country, Amount, Network Rule Validation, BIC, IBAN (changes by each country) and POP(changes by each country) fields of teh message. Build Error Handling Modules to Handle Errors. Repositories on Github Future enhancements: Project will be able to handle any type of message including all MT messages, ISO messages. Independent IoT Application Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Used Date Grid and other .NET Controls and stylesheet CSS. Designed navigation flow from actions on teh screen for easy navigation for user with minimal clicks. Used java script for client side validations. Worked with integration with SQL server stored procedures based on signature published Involved in role of technical and support lead for teh applications working in an onsite-offshore model coordinating between teh client and teh Onsite support team. Direct interaction with Clients and LOB. Involved in Analysis, implementation and deployment ofIE8 Remediationof teh RECWeb application. Has been involved in analysis and design of teh requirements for teh small enhancement projects. Getting new enhancement projects from Client. Process Coordination and Delivery Management. Development of teh new components in .NET technology. Involved in analysing and fixing issues and providing a primary level support coordinating between teh vendor and teh line-of-business for these applications and to ensure 24 by 7 running availability of teh applications to teh internal users of Bank. Confidential Jr. Developer Responsibilities: Involved in teh requirement gathering, document preparation, design, coding, testing and deployment of application. Involved in developing and designing ASP pages, server side C# and client side scripting in JScript and database SQL Server 2000. Involved in designing tables in SQL Server 2000. Wrote SQL Queries, Store procedures, User Defined Functions, Triggers in SQL SERVER 2000. Experience in writing test cases to be used at teh time of testing teh application and halping User testing team if any queries. Designed a large no of input screens. Used BIDS in SQL SERVER 2000 Database for Data Transformation. Implemented Visual Source Safe for Configuration Management and Version control functionality. Involved in teh end user training and managing and maintaining teh application Involved in studying and understanding teh existing application which was designed in vb6. Environment: ASP, .Net, SQL Server 2000, Visual Studio 2000, C#, JScript. Confidential Responsibilities: Experience in teh requirements analysis and development of System Specifications Experience in teh design of teh database and generation of test data for teh test dataset Involved in documentation and designing SQL queries for teh system Designed and developed teh system in VB6, SQL Server 2000 Majorly involve in House Projects in VC++ and Oracle8.0 also where main modules were Student Management Faculty Management Surveillance System Lab System Library Management System Confidential Developer Responsibilities: Involved in teh requirement gathering, document preparation, design, coding, testing and deployment of application. Involved in developing web pages for leave application, inventory, employee reports, attendance using swipe card, Queries etc. using VC++ with Oracle8i..Involved in designing tables in Oracle8i. Wrote SQL Queries, Store procedures, User Defined Functions and Triggers. Experience in writing test cases to be used at teh time of testing teh application and halping User testing team if any queries.Designed a large no of input screens. Implemented Visual Source Safe for Configuration Management and Version control functionality. Involved in teh end user training and managing and maintaining teh application Involved in studying and understanding teh existing (DMS) application. Involved in assisting HR executives (for DMS application) to test teh application before deploying. Environment: VC++, Oracle8i Confidential  Developer Responsibilities: Experience in teh requirements analysis and development of System Specifications Experience in teh design of teh database and generation of test data for teh test dataset Involved in documentation and designing SQL queries for teh system Designed and developed teh system in Visual Basic 6.0. Environment: MS-Access 2000, Visual Basic 6.0, Crystal Report Writer 7.0 Confidential  Developer Responsibilities: Part of Production Support for Phase I and Phase II Developments. Maintenance and Testing Team and worked as GEN-ADMINISTRATOR at client side. Interaction with clients after Installation, halping them to use GENISYS. Fixing problems with existing during support phase. Training other programmers on ORACLE FORMS-55 units and functionality of system and assisting them with technical issues.