SUMMARY Around 5 years of professional IT experience in designing and developing of Multi - Tier distributed, Enterprise applications using Object Oriented Programming features of Core Java, J2EE technologies with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Strong application development experience in using Agile Software Development methodologies like Scrum, Sprint and Traditional software models like Waterfall and TDD. Expertise in developing web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Angular, Bootstrap with webpage cross browser compatibility and responsive web design and Server scripting language like Node JS, BackboneJS. Expertise in Web Front End Technologies Struts, Tag Libraries and Struts custom validation rules, Tiles, JSTL, Java Script, DHTML and XML/XSL. Experience with Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions for making anonymous inline function calls by using functional Interfaces which makes code readable and concise. Worked with Streams API and parallel Streams API for enabling parallel processing of collections in distributed environment. Having experience with Cloud Computing Service environment like Amazon Web Services (AWS) and managed EC2, S3 bucket, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration. Experience in understanding and implementing of Micro services in client-server business applications. Expert in building Micro service applications using Spring Boot for developing RESTful web services. Experience in implementing client-server business applications using MVC and SOA architecture. Expert in Core Java and implemented concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics, Swings and collections in various projects. Expertise in Core Java and J2EE Technologies, including JSPs, Servlets, Java Mail, EJB transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans), JMS, Java Beans, JDBC, JNDI. Extensive experience on backend frameworks like Spring, Hibernate and JSF. Expert in implementing Spring modules such as Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring DAO and Spring ORM. Experience in working with ORM frameworks like Hibernate, JPA (Java Persistence API) and APIs such as JDO (Java Data Objects). Developing inter-operable Web Services and its related technologies like SOAP, Restful, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis. Experienced with Middleware Technology Messaging Brokers like JMS and ActiveMQ in SOA(Service-oriented) Architecture. Strong skills in RDBMS implementation and development using SQL Server, Oracle, IBM DB2, MYSQL and experience in working with SQL, PL/SQL programming languages. Expertise in NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Dynamo DB, Cassandra databases. Experience in using build tools likeGradle, ANT, MAVENfor the development of build artifacts on the source code and log4J framework for logging details. Experience in developing test cases based on test first or Test-Driven Methodology using JUnit, JMeter, Mockito. Highly experience with Java complaint IDE’s like Spring Tool Suite, Eclipse, IntelliJ and RAD. Experience in software configuration management using Subversion (SVN), Git, Source Tree as versioning software tools. Experienced in developing UML diagrams with Star UML, Rational Rose. Experience in using web app servers like IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, Jetty and JBOSS Servers. Quick Learner, highly motivated team player with excellent organizational and analytical skills. Excellent problem-solving skills, outstanding interpersonal skills, good in written and verbal communication. Ability to work independently as well as within a team environment. Driven to meet the deadlines. Motivated to produce robust, high-performance software. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: C, C++, Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JDBC, JSP, JSF, JMS, EJB, JNDI, Java Security Mark-up/XML Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular, JSP, JSTL, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, JSON Tools: & Framework: Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, JSF, JUnit, SOAP UI, ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Apache Active MQ, Apache Camel Web services: SOAP, Restful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis Web/App Servers: IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web Logic Server Database: Oracle, SQL-Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL server, TOAD, Cassandra, MongoDB/NoSQL IDEs: Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite(STS), RAD O-R mapping: Hibernate, MyBatis Testing Tools/ Others: JUnit, Soap UI, Putty, Rational Clear Quest, RTC, StarTeam Version Control: Tortoise SVN, CVS, Rational Clear case, Git and Mercurial, Docker OS & Environment: Windows, Sun Solaris, UNIX, Linux Cloud Technologies: AWS (Amazon Web Services) PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE  Confidential, Boise, ID Full Stack Java Developer Responsibilities: Followed agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints. Utilize Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application. Involved in the process of Design, Coding and Testing phases of the software development cycle, involved in designing Spring boot application and Hibernate ORM. Used Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Collections, Hibernate Caching, Hibernate Transactions. Worked on RESTful Web Services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation and to transport detain JSON format. Using a Micro Service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and ActiveMQ message brokers. Involved in design & implement of the client web application that includes technology stack Angular 6, SCSS, Typescript, JavaScript, and Visual Studio Code. Worked on Angular directives, Controllers, Filter, Services, Events and Injectors. Developed complex nested components for reuse such as Pop-Up, Navigation Wrote application level code to interact with backend and consume the JSON by using RXJS Observables. Service calls made through Zuul to retrieve Session for authentication. Rest services templates are generated using swagger specifications. Developed REST controllers using Spring MVC to serve the UI with required JSON data. Developed REST Exception Handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server-side exceptions. Used Hibernate in the persistence layer and implemented DAOs to access data from Oracle database. Experience in writing complex PL/SQL queries using joins, stored procedures, functions, triggers, cursors and indexes in Oracle DB. Experienced in implementation of JMS in order to exchange information over reliable channel in an asynchronous way by using ActiveMQ as a message queue. Used Jenkins for continuous integration and Maven for building the WAR and JAR files. Worked on Angular 6.0 by consuming RESTful web services & Used Angular 6.0 forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms. Integrated Spring MVC model for front-end request action controller and Spring AOP for logging purposes. Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and developed controllers for handling Http requests and providing Http response. Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs. Used Maven as build automation tool and deployed web and enterprise applications on JBoss application server in a channel secure environment. Worked on Load testing on JMeter to improve the performance of newly developed code. Worked in close cooperation with project managers and other functional team members to form a team effort in development. Used Sonar Java source code analyser for code quality. Used SVN for version control across common source code used by developers. Translated business requirements to technical design specification documents. Performed JUnit Testing on the developed web services. Environment: Java 1.8, Agile(SCRUM), HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 6, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, Microservices, Hibernate, Spring, MongoDB, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Servlet, XML, SVN, Spring MVC, JDBC, Mockito, JUnit, Maven, Selenium, Restful, Log4J, SonarQube, SOA, JIRA, Spring Security and Jenkins.  Confidential, Dallas, TX  Full Stack Developer Responsibilities: Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, and testing. Developed the view-controller components usingJSPs,HTML5,CSS3,AJAX,JavaScript (jQuery). Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side inAngular. Hands-on experience in developing integration with Elastic search in any of the programming languages like JAVA and JavaScript. Having knowledge of advance reporting using Elastic search and NodeJS. Implementedcorefeatures ofAngularframework such as dependencyInjection,Data-binding,Filters, Directives, Templates, Services and Deep Linking Designing. Used Java 1.8 features like stream and Lambda expressions. Maintained Interface compatibility and concurrency in the project using Java 1.8 new features like default, static methods and Concurrency API. Involved in the development ofMicroservicesfor all the models using combination of Spring Boot and Spring Security. Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS) and deployed the application on it. Developed API’s to read and publish data from Elastic Search cluster using native Java Transport client as well as REST client. Worked on Spring Integration with the Elastic Search. Used Spring MVC framework for implementing Model-View- Controller (MVC)architecture at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced, and maintenance will be very easy. Used Spring AOP for solving crosscutting concerns like keeping logged data and transactions details etc. Used Spring Batch for processing large amount of data like transaction management, job processing, resource management and logging. Secured the API's by implementing OAuth 2.0 token-based authentication/authorization scheme using Spring Security. Designed and developed third-party Payment services to Offer Users Convenient Payment Methods based on OAuth Protocol. UsedHibernateORMframeworkas persistence engine and wroteHibernateQueries to automate the mapping betweenOracledatabase andObjectsinJava. Involved in writing SQL and Stored Procedures for handling complex queries with help of TOAD and access them through Java Programs from Oracle Database. Worked with MongoDB to store non-relational data into collection and retrieve them whenever required. Hands on Coding to build REST Micro Services using Spring Cloud, Oracle, XSD, JSON, Spring Config, and Jenkins. Worked on developing RESTful endpoints to cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like REDIS and exposed them with RESTful endpoints. Focused onTestDrivenDevelopmentthere by creating detailedJUnittests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality. Worked on Log4J to validate functionalities and Mockito framework, JUnit for unit testing Performed automation testing and authored test scripts using SeleniumWeb Driver, Selenium Gridand Junit. Worked in Agile TDD environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Jira, Jenkins, and Maven for build packaging and deployments of the application components. Environment: Agile(SCRUM), HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, Angular, AWS, Microservices, Hibernate, Spring, MongoDB, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Servlet, XML, GIT, JSP, Spring MVC, JDBC, Mockito, JUnit, Maven, IBM WebSphere, BackboneJS, Selenium, Restful, Log4J, SOA, Java Server Pages, JIRA, Spring Security, Jenkins and STS. Confidential, St. Louis, MO Java developer Responsibilities: Involved in analysis, specification, design, implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) based on the functional requirements. Application is implemented using agile methodology where there is a daily SCRUM meeting to understand the status and resolve any issues. Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap and interaction. Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, and handled the security using Spring Security. Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate/JDBC template and Spring IOC (Dependency Injection). Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller. Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO’s and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management. Extensively used hibernate named queries, criteria queries, Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database. Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files. Used Apache Axis Service Engine for creating and deploying Web Service clients using SOAP. Consumed SOAP and RESTful Web Services in SOA environment and used SOAP UI for testing. Created flows on messaging using ActiveMQ. Written Stored Procedures and SQL Queries to interact with MS SQL Server. Involved in production support during deployments and worked on resolving tickets raised by business users and L1 supports. Extensively used JUnit for unit testing, integration testing and production testing. Involved in installing and configuring Maven for application builds and deployment. Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application. Worked with Intellij and used Gradle build tool to achieve more functionality for build process. Involved in Maintenance and Enhancements for the project. Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, AngularJS, Spring, Hibernate, Jenkins, JAXP, JAXB, AWS, JMS, SVN, JSP, Servlet, JBoss, Oracle, RESTful Web Services, AXIS, Confidential Software Engineer Responsibilities: Captured all the functional and technical requirements of the Supply Chain Management System. Was involved in the preparation of the software requirements and design document (SRS & SDS). Adapted Java Design Patterns DAO, Value Objects and Session Facade to develop business components. Developed class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using UML. Defined the detailed application and database design. Involved in collecting requirements from Business Users, Data Modeling, Designing and Developing Tools using J2EE, Java, JSP, EJB, and Servlets. Developed the application based on MVC architecture. Developed the GUI using HTML, CSS and JSP, AJAX and JQuery. Front end validations are written using JavaScript. Java Servlets were used as the common gateway interface between the client and server. Java Beans were used to handle business logic as a Model and Servlets to control the flow of application as Controller. Writing database queries on Oracle and Involved in the JDBC queries as part of implementation. Used WebSphere Application server to deploy the applications. Performed Unit Testing using JUnit. Provided a User Manual and User Training on the new system to ease them into the new system. Used CVS as a version control tool. Environment: JDK, J2EE, Java, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, EJB, Servlets, MVC Architecture, JDBC, Oracle, WebSphere, JUnit, CVS, Eclipse, Linux, Design Patterns, UML. Confidential Software Developer Responsibilities: Involved in understanding and analyzing the requirements of the project. Designed and developed the User Interface using HTML, CSS, JSP, AJAX and JQuery. Used Java Script to perform Client-Side Validation. Implemented server-side programs by using Servlets and EJB. Implemented using the MVC design pattern. Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in J2EE using Struts MVC. Developed Controller Servlets, Action and Action Form objectsfor process of interacting with MySQL database using Struts. Developed SQL Queriesto interact with the MYSQL Database and used JDBC to interact with the Database. Involved inUnit testingfor various components. Used Log4j for any logging purposes during the development of the application. Used Apache Tomcat Server to deploy the build. Used Clear Case as repository to control versioning of projects. Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, EJB, Servlets, Struts MVC, JDBC, MYSQL, Apache Tomcat Server, Log4j, Unit Testing, Clear Case, Eclipse, UNIX.