SUMMARY Around 8+ years of professional experience in analysis, design, development and implementation of web and software applications and in developing n - tier architecture based solutions with distributed components and internet/intranet applications using Java and J2EE. Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies like Core Java (multithreading, concurrency, memory management), JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Ajax, Struts, spring, Hibernate, Web Services, HTML, CSS, XML and JavaScript. Experienced in using Design Pattern: Singleton Pattern, Session Façade Pattern, MVC Pattern, and DAO pattern. Extensive experience in developing web Applications using Struts framework implementing ActionClasses, ActionForms, Struts Validation, Struts Tiles and Struts Tag Libraries. Strong Working experience in Design, Development and implementation of several J2EE frameworks like (Model View Controller), Spring 1.1/1.2, Spring IoC, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring JDBC, Spring JMX and Hibernate Extensive B2B development work on BEA Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss application servers and web development on Apache Tomcat Web server. Proficiency in programming with different Java IDE’s like Eclipse. Tremendous knowledge in working with databases like Oracle, DB2 and MySQL. Strong database connectivity skills include Oracle, MYSQL, and DB2 and in programming with SQL, PL/SQL, and Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages besides writing DDL, DML and Transaction queries with development tools like SQL developer. Used Spring 2.0 Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate Developed the workflow interfaces using JSPs, CSS, Struts Tiles layouts and the request processors using Dispatch Action and Action. Expertise on entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in Intranet and Internet applications using Web/Application Servers like Tomcat, Jboss, and WebLogic Application Server. Good experience in developing test cases with JUnit for Unit testing, Load testing using JMeter, Stress test and logging using Log4J. Experience on java web services using Apache Axis2.0 and JAX-WS. Developed scripts for automating tasks using Ant and UNIX shell programming. Experienced in deploying applications on Application servers such as WebLogic, and JBoss and on the Tomcat. Excellent team Player with good Technical, Analytical and interpersonal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL Operating Systems: Windows 98/2000/XP/NT/VISTA/7, Sun Solaris, Linux, Unix (AIX), MS-DOS Java Technologies: J2SE, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JMS, MQ Series, MDB, JNDI, RMI, Web Services, Design Patterns, JAVA Beans. Web/App. Server: Tomcat 5.5/6.0, Web Logic  7.0/8.1/9.2/10.0/10.3 , Web Sphere 4.0/5.0/6.1, Stripes, JBoss 4.0/4.2/6.2 Frameworks & IDE Tools: Spring, Hibernate 3.0, JUnit, ANT, AJAX, Log4J, Eclipse 1.0/3.1, CVS Web-Development Technologies: JSP, XML, XSD, XSLT, DTD, DOM, LDAP, HTML, Java Script, CSS, DHTML, Agile Methodology, Servlets, JSTL (Tag Libraries), i18n, ANT and JUnit. RDBMS: ORACLE 7i/8i/9i/10g, MySQL, SQL Server 6.5, MS Access, Oracle EBS 11i/R12 OOAD: UML, Design Patterns PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Plano, TX Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Application is implemented using agile methodology where there are daily SCRUM meetings to understand the status and resolve any issues. Involved in design sessions during sprint design meetings to understand and come up with design solutions for the user requirements. Designed the user interface for iPad using IOS7. Communication between IOS and java handle using RESTful webservices. Used Restful webservices to send responses using JSON or XML Identified and fixed transactional issues due to incorrect exception handling. Implemented Service oriented architecture (SOA) using Restful web services which can accept a JSON object coming from the member portal application. Developed applications to client’s coding standards and quality. Conducted code reviews to ensure the delivery of quality code. Logging various levels of information like error, info, and debug into the log files using Sl4j. Star team is used as Version Control Tool for checking in-out files and maintaining the code base. Used ant build script to compile and build the WAR. Used WebLogic to deploy the application Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, JDBC, Web services, REST, XML, DB2, JSON, SOAP UI, Sl4j, Star Team, Design patterns, Agile Methodology, Windows/UNIX, WebLogic 11g. Confidential, Danville, IL Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Developed front end modules using JAVA, JSP and Servlets. Integrated with Web Methods via web services. Used SQL Studio for developing curd operations. Involved in writing Stored procedures, Functions & triggers. Worked on jQuery for user interface interactions, effects and themes built on top of the jQuery java Scripts. Developed web application using Spring MVC Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view. I have worked on agile environment uses incremental approach and also have daily standup meetings. Consumed web services from different applications within the network. Developed Hibernate 3.0 in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database. Used Spring 2.0 Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate Designed and developed Utility Class that consumed the messages from the Java message Queue and generated emails to be sent to the customers. Used Java Mail API for sending emails. Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j 1.2 to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions. Used SVN for version control and used as the IDE for implementing the application. Developed the workflow interfaces using JSPs, CSS, Tiles layouts and the request processors using Dispatch Action and Action Integrated with Web Methods via web services. Created topics, queues and MDB’s for communication using JMS Used JAX-RPC Web Service used for RESTFUL Service to process the application for the customer Environment: Java (Jdk 1.6/1.7), JavaScript, JQuery,SVN, REST API’s, Html5, Log4J, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring JMS, Hibernate/JPA, CSS, JBoss 6.0, Unix, Maven, Eclipse Juno, SQL,JUNIT. Confidential, IA Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Involved in software development life cycle including analysis, design, development, Unit testing, refactoring and documentation of the application using Java. Prepared Technical Design Document to understand the flow of the application. Used online Agile scrum development process during the project process to gather up the requirements and issues. Used JSP, Spring MVC and JQuery to develop the User Interface. Used java web services JAX-WS. Used hibernate to create persistence class objects and created beans to interact with the database. Developed classes using core java (multithreading, concurrency, memory management) and some spring IOC. The database used was SQL and PL/SQL and was responsible for developing packages with procedures, functions, cursors, table partitions for populating tables. Created database objects like Stored Procedures, Tables, Views, Sequences, Cursors, Packages and Triggers. Entire Applications are developed in Eclipse and deployed in the JBoss Server. Used Github for source code repository and version controlling. Maven was used as a build tool for the project. Involved in code reviews and enhancement of application. Tested the application in different environments for cross browser compatibility. Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles. Environment: Java (Jdk 1.5/1.6), JavaScript, JQuery,SOAP web service, Html5, Log4J, Spring, Hibernate/JPA, CSS, JBoss 6.0EAP, Windows 2000/XP, Unix, Maven, Eclipse Juno, SQL Developer, github. Confidential, Warren, NJ Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Developed application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture. Integrating Struts with Spring by delegating Struts action management to Spring Framework based service layer. Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection. Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection. Used Spring-Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database. Hibernate frame work is used in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database (oracle). Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator and Singleton. Used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database. Designed and developed the web-tier using HTML, JSP, Servlets, Struts and Tiles framework. Used Http compression and AJAX for faster response time. Implemented spring security features using AOP Interceptors for the authentication. Used Java Scripts for client side validations and validation framework for server side validations. Used SAX and DOM parser to parse the XML documents and XSLT for transformations. Used Log4j for logging messages and Rational Clear Case for version Control. Used ANT scripts to fetch, build, and deploy application to development environment. Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, and UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers. Involved in coding of Java Script using JQuery for front-end validations. Deployed the application on JBoss application server. Used Rational Rose for Use Case diagrams, Active flow diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Object diagrams in design phase. Used JUnit framework and Easy Mock for Unit Testing. Environment: J2EE 1.4, Servlets, JSP, Struts 1.2, EJB 2.1, UML, Oracle 9i, Jquery, WebSphere 6, MySQL, Core Java, Web Design, AJAX, JUnit, ANT, Axis2 Web services, CVS, Hibernate, TOMCAT, HTML5, Unix, Shell Scripts. Confidential, Tampa, FL Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Developed for both batch and online environments. Responsible and active in the analysis, definition, design, implementation, management, and deployment of full software development life-cycle of project. Worked with Core Java concepts like, Collections Framework, multithreading. Developing User Interface and implementing business process using JSP and Servlets. Designed and implemented billing, rates and invoicing functional areas. Provided significant input to the overall system framework design. Used design patterns MVC, Data Access object and Data Transfer Objects. Used several open source tools like Log4J. Developed front end using JSP and struts framework. Developed infrastructure to Import and export billing transactional data in various formats like XML, Excel, and CSV. Involved in a project to migrate JDBC based persistence layer to JPA. Created database maintenance tools, enabling database modelers to manage the databases more effectively. Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC. Worked with Cross Browser development. Environment: Eclipse, Struts2.1, JMS, JPA, AJAX, DB2, XML, Jquery, ANT, Core Java, TOMCAT, PHP, CSS, HTML5, Node JS, PL/SQL, JUnit, UDB, Perl, Unix, Shell Script, MongoDB and Maven Build tool. Confidential, NY Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the Full Life cycle of the project, i.e. Requirements gathering, and in implementing OOAD using UML Worked on Action forms, Action Servlets and struts-config.xml file of Struts MVC framework. Adopted J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Session Façade, Value Object and Singleton Suggested a proper N-tier Architecture and designed the system using J2EE & SOA and designed innovative front end using CSS and HTML Designed UI with AJAX, DHTML and JavaScript for more interactive web pages and involved in implementation of client side validations using JavaScript Developed EJB Session Beans to communicate with Controller and database layer. Generated POJO classes to map to the database table. Wrote HBM Files for mapping java objects to tables in relational database and updated it as required. Used Oracle 9i as database and Involved in the development of Procedures, Triggers for PL/SQL backend implementation and using SQL created Select, Update and Delete statements Developed DHTML pages and JavaScript functions for client side validations and created CSS pages using Eclipse as IDE for developing the application. Involved in deploying the application in WebLogic application server, developing and executing the UNIX Shell Scripts for deploying the application in the server. Performed Use case design, object modeling using UML, like Transformation of the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity diagrams. Prepared Test cases and Reviewed Code and Test cases and performed Unit testing and system testing using Defect Tracking System Environment: Java, J2EE, Custom tags, JMS, Spring, AJAX, Jquery, Design Patterns, CVS, PL/SQL, XML, XSD, Core Java, Web Design, WebLogic, CSS, DB2, PHP, Unix and Shell Script, Perl. 