SUMMARY Cloudera certified Spark and Hadoop Developer with ~6+ years of experience on Hadoop, Spark and AtScale technologies. Experience in machine learning using random forest, deep learning for understand the shoppingtrends. Experience in installing, configuring, testing Hadoop ecosystem components. Experience in migrating the data using Sqoop from HDFS to Relational Database System and vice - versa according to client'srequirement. Experience in managing different file formats andcompressions. Extensive knowledge on Spark Core APIs, Data Frames, SparkSQL. Very good understanding of partitioning and bucketing inHive. Knowledge on ingesting real-time or near real time streaming data into HDFS using flume, Kafka and spark streaming. Knowledge on integration of flume with Kafka,integration of flume with spark streaming and Kafka with spark streaming. Designed HIVE queries & Pig scripts to perform data analysis, data transfer and tabledesign. Expertise in Hive queries and have extensive knowledge onjoins. Extensive knowledge on Sqoop import andexports. Create hive scripts to extract, transform, load (ETL) and store thedata Managed and reviewed Hadoop logfiles. Hands-on knowledge in core Java concepts like Exceptions, Collections, Data-structures, I/O. Multi-threading, Serialization and deserialization of streaming applications. Experience in Software Design, Development and Implementation of Client/Server Web based Applications using JSTL, jQuery, JavaScript, Java Beans, JDBC, Struts, PL/SQL, SQL, HTML, CSS, XML, AJAX and had a bird's eye view on React Java Script Library. Experience in mentoring my team members by training, guiding and monitoring the irtasks. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Python, SQL, shell script, Java, C/C++, HTML Bigdata Technologies: HDFS, Hive, Pig, Spark, Kafka, Sqoop, Flume Design tools: MATLAB, Arduino, NetBeans Java Technologies: Core Java, JSP, JDBC, Eclipse, Jboss Cloud Technologies: Amazon AWS No Sql Databases: HBase IDE’s & Tools: Atscale, Eclipse, Intellij Idea, putty, Visual Studio Databases: My Sql, Oracle Operating Systems: Unix, windows, Linux Business Intelligence Tools: Tableau Modelling Language: UML PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential  Spark/Hive Developer Responsibilities: Installation and setup of multi node Cloudera cluster on AWScloud Installation and setup of AtScale on top of Hadoop cluster using Hive and Impala as the SQLengines Development of cubes involving multiple facts anddimensions Development of calculations, leveraging Query Datasets Infrastructure related activities like Managing AtScale database instance, backing up instance, upgrading instance, reviewing logs and troubleshooting Hadoop and AtScale environment. Defining & managing Aggregates Developing fine grain access and data level security for region, branch and main branchhierarchy Develop access patters for data access from excel andtableau. Confidential  Hadoop Developer Responsibilities: Developed the framework for multiple data sources ingestion capabilities. Configured framework with required metadata for data ingestion for all the datasources. Developed a mapping of Data ingestion type to the program mapping (Sqoop, Pig orKafka) Developed Ingestion capability using Sqoop, Kafka and pig. Leveraged spark for data processing and transformation Developed the real time / near real time framework using Kafka and Flumecapabilities Developed framework to decide on data formats like Parquet, AVRO, ORCetc. Developed Spark code using Python and Spark-SQL for faster processing andtesting. Worked on Spark SQL for joining multiple hive tables and write them to a final hive table and stored them on S3. Implemented Spark RDD transformations to Map business analysis and apply actions on top of transformations. Performed querying of both managed and external tables created byHive. Continuous monitoring and managing the Hadoop cluster through ClouderaManager. Used Spark API over Cloudera Hadoop YARN to perform analytics on data inHive. Responsible in creating Hive tables, loading with data and writing Hivequeries. Setting up Cloudera Clusters, adding nodes /hosts. Performance Tuning of Cloudera Clusters in terms of resources allocation across Yarn, HDFS andImpala. Confidential  Data Analyst Responsibilities: Analyzing the purchase patterns to the buyers and seller experience better using Random Forest, Deep learning. Developing reports by performing spark- actions and transformations on the available data and connecting to tableau for better business decisions. Creating HIVE scripts for ETL, creating HIVE tables, writing HIVEqueries. Environment: s: AWS, Hadoop, Spark, Hive, Sqoop, Tableau, Jupiter Notebook, Investigator Workbench, Lexus Nexus. Confidential  Java Developer Responsibilities: Responsible and active in the analysis, design, implementation and deployment of full Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) of the project. Designed and developed user interface using JSP, HTML and JavaScript. Defined the search criteria and pulled out the record of the customer from the database. Make the required changes and save the updated record back to the database. Validated the fields of user registration screen and login screen by writing JavaScript and jQuery validations. Used DAO and JDBC for database access. Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL in order to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic. Design and develop XML processing components for dynamic menus on the application. Involved in postproduction support and maintenance of the application. Involved in the analysis, design, implementation, and testing of the project modules. Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, XHTML and JavaScript. Developed web components using JSP and JDBC. Deploying the Application to the JBOSS Application Server. Requirement gatherings from various stakeholders of the project. Effort-estimation and estimating timelines for development tasks. Used to J2EE and EJB to handle the business flow and Functionality. Implemented database using SQL Server. Designed tables and indexes. Wrote complex SQL queries and stored procedures. Involved in fixing bugs and unit testing with test cases using JUnit. Created user and technical documentation. Environment: s: Java, Oracle, HTML, XML, SQL, J2EE, JUnit, JDBC, JSP, Tomcat, SQL Server, MongoDB, JavaScript, GitHub, SourceTree, NetBeans. 