SUMMARY Over 6 years of experience in analysis, design, implementation and testing of Object - Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE. Experienced in Java Web-based, desktop, and Multitier Based Development with Concepts of, Object Oriented Design, Object Oriented Analysis, Object Oriented Programming and its implementation. Experience working with various Software Development Life Cycle like Waterfall Model, V-Shape Model, Iterative Model and methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Iteration, and TDD Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE Such as Spring MVC, Hibernate, Struts2framework,EJB, Servlets 3.x, JSF and Google Web Toolkit. Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate Query Language. Expertise in developing Web-based Distributed and Front-End applications in a three-tier architecture using Java, J2EE, HTML, HTML5, Backbone JS, Bootstrap, Angular4,Angular 2, Ajax, Node JS, JSP,CSS, JavaBeans. Experienced in Developing Java/J2EE Applications using JDK 1.7/1.8, Core Java, JSP, JSF, springs, Web Services, Struts, XML, XSD, XSL, and JNDI. Experienced in frameworks: Spring MVC, Jakarta struts framework, JSF, Spring, and Hibernate. Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as MVC, IOC, AOP and Spring JDBC, Spring JTA, Spring IO, Spring Boot with Thyme leaf, Spring HATEOS, Spring Heroku, Spring Netflix, Spring Hystrix. Developed Struts based presentation layer, Hibernate based DAO layer, Transactional based service layer for business logic and integrated all these layers using Spring Dependency injection, ORM and Web modules. Expertise in building real-time data pipelines using Spring Kafka and Zookeeper apart from JMS and messaging. Good Knowledge of Apache Storm which is used for real-time Stream processing Expertise in Web Services for data transfer from client to server using Apache Axis, REST, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI. Experience in writing JSON REST APIs using Golang Experienced in working with multiple databases like Oracle 10/11g, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, Sybase, PostgreSQL and SQLite and NoSQL Databases like (Mongo DB, Cassandra, Dynamo DB, Infinity). Hands on experience in Amazon Web Services provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, ELB, RDS, VPC, Spring Route53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, SNS etc. Experience in implementing Java EE design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Session Façade, DAO, DTO, and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications. Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic, and JBoss. Experience in using build tool as ANT, Gradle, Maven to compile, package the components to the Application Servers MAVEN scripts for customizing WAR/ JAR file management for web applications and log4J. Experienced in performing unit testing using JUnit, Test NG, Mockito, integration and deployment of applications using tools such as ANT, Maven, Gradle and Drools& debugging through log4j. Hands on experience Developing tooling using Java/Golang. Experience with mainframe batch COBOL/DB2 MVS application Development in accessing DB2 databases. Experience in using different levels like SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS on the AWS Cloud. Experience in creating Docker images, Containers, push/pull and integrating with Spring Boot for running applications securely on container platform by flexible integrating existing processes with log4J for logging. Experience with build tools like CICD-ANT, Maven and logging tools like Log4J. Experienced in Development, testing and deployment of enterprise applications on Windows & UNIX platforms using IDE’s such as Eclipse, Rational Application Developer, NetBeans, IntelliJ. Experience in using different controlling/tracking systems Subversion, CVS, GIT, and Rational Clear Case. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Language: Core Java, SQL, PL/SQL Java/J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, RMI, EJB, Swing, AWT, Multi-threading, Java Networking Java Frameworks: Spring MVC, Struts 2.0, JSF Application/Web Servers: WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Tomcat ORM Frameworks: Hibernate, JSF, IBATIS Web Technologies: JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, XSLT, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, SASS, HTML, AngularJS, Ext JS, backbone JS, JSON, Golang. Spring Framework: Spring IOC, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security Database Server: Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL, RDBMS, MongoDB, Cassandra IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ, STS Web Services: REST, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, WSDL, Axis2, UDDI, Apache CXF Version Control: GIT, CVS, SVN, Clear case Build Tools: ANT, Maven, Gradle Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Water-Fall, Rapid Application Development, Test Driven Development Modeling Tools: Microsoft Visio, Rational Rose Operating System: Windows, Mac, Linux, UNIX Tools: Apache Camel, ESB, cucumber, Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio, Google Firebase. Testing &logging: Junit, Jasmine, Junit, Log4J, SoapUI, Test NG, easy mock and power mock. Karma, Protractor, Mockito, Selenium, Jenkins, Docker Cloud Developments: EC2, S3, Elastic, ELB, Spring PCF (Pivotal Cloud Foundry). PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Java/ J2EE Developer Confidential, Detroit, MI Responsibilities: Followed Agile, Scrum approach of development strategy. Created many custom filters using Angular 4.0 and an external module to manipulate the routing. Configured Karma test runner for the project and unit tests are written in Jasmine. Designed, develop a custom, single-page, responsive Web Application on the front end using Angular 4.0. Designed pages using Angular 4.0 Validations, Modules, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers and Filters. Extensively used Spring Framework modules like MVC, DI(IOC), JDBC Templates, Spring Security and AOP. Created and injected Spring services, controllers and DAOs for DI and to wire objects of business classes. Implemented the Project structure based onSpring MVCpattern usingSpring boot. Hands on experience Spring Boot Actuator, Spring Cloud, and Netflix Eureka. Extensively used Hibernate Mappings, HQL, Query, Criteria, Lazy Loading Transactions and Lockings. Developed Stored Procedures, triggered stored procedures using Hibernate. Experience with various persistence mechanisms and APIs like JPA, JDO, Hibernate, EJB. Used Hibernate EHcachefor second level caching which resulted in the enhanced performance of the application. Developed Web Services using SOA technologies such as REST. Developed and consumed Apache CXF based Web Services as part of Payments Application. Developed Grunt tasks to run the unit tests on Jenkins. Used advanced Java 8 features like Lambda Expressions Streams, Filters. Enhanced concurrency methods etc. Design and develop Selenium tests to verify the functionality of internal business applications and resulting data. Experience with creating Workflows, Mappings and Scheduling Jobs in Informatics. Developed Business rules using DROOLS and integrated with Application. Develop, test and implement BizTalk applications (schemas, maps, pipelines, orchestrations). Provide support to the Help Desk, Network team and Development team relative to communications and BizTalk issues. Provide technical assistance for current BizTalk infrastructure. Deployed the application in JBoss production server running in Linux platform. Worked with high volume and complex PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Packages using TOAD. Design patterns are extensively used to achieve a clean separation of different layers like Adapter, Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, Service Locator and Facade. Extensively Used Castor, XSTREAM & JAXB APIs for XML Marshaling and Un-marshaling. Experience with Upgrading existing project from CVS to SVN and HUDSON to JENKINS DevelopingDockerimages for Development and Testing teams and their pipelines. Strong understanding of Microservice architectures, patterns, related frameworks and prior hands-on experience in developing and deploying Microservice solutions. Implementing or exposing the Microservice architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers. CoordinatedKafkaoperations and monitoring (via JMX) with Dev Ops team. Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot. Experience in develop and configure monitoring solutions to provide full visibility to the different platform components using tools and services like AWS, Cloud watch, Splunk. Experience in Cloud Solutions on AWS utilizing EC2, S3, IAM, ECS and RDS etc. Experience designing and developing applications on relational databases MongoDB. Environment: J2EE, Spring Framework, Microservice, Spring MVC 4, MongoDB, Angular 4.0, Core Java, Spring Security, Hibernate 4.X, Magento, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Web Services, SOAP, XML, JavaBeans, XStream, Apache POI, EXT JS, JQuery, JavaScript, Eclipse, JBoss, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, Apache Maven, JUnit, HTML/UNIT, XSLT, HTML5/DHTML. Java/ J2EE Full Stack Developer Confidential, Hartford, CT Responsibilities: Involved in FullCycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases by following Agile Software Development with Scrum methodology. Developed using new features of Java 8 annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums. Well versedwithcoreJavaconcepts like Collections,Swing, Serialization and Servlets & JSP. Designed and Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery. Worked with Angular CLI and AngularJS to create Controllers and Angular components. Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with Database. Implemented the business modules integration using Spring and Hibernate data mapping. Used Spring Boot Actuator for application's configuration properties in various environments, Upgraded Spring Rest Controllers and Services classes to support migration to Spring framework. Using Spring AOP Module to implement logging in the application for application status and deployed Spring Security for session fixation, click jacking, cross-site request forgery. Developed Microservices using Spring Boot,SpringCloud with Netflix Eureka to create the discovery Server, service, discovery clients and integrated Apache Kafka and Zoo Keeper as a message broker. Developed microservices with Spring to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each microservice in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway. Using Golang designed the toolkit for projects based on Docker along with Kubernetes. Developed Entity objects and used Hibernate the ORM tool to access persistent data from SQL Server. Experience using persistence framework like Hibernate, JPA for mappingjavaclasses with Database. Experience working on Docker Hub, creating Docker images and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations. Worked on the creation of Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integrating Spring boot, created the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application lifecycle. UtilizedAWSLambdaplatform to upload data into AWS S3buckets and to trigger otherLambda functions (EC2, MongoDB) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling). Involved in configuring Elastic Load Balancers with Autoscaling to handle high traffic loads. Used SQL Server to access data in the database at different Levels, responsible for implementing SQL queries and managing JDBC interactions with data sources. Worked on JBoss Application server implementation, support, workload management and performance tuning including Web server setup configuration with JBoss App Server. Designed and developed custom message adapter components using Apache Kafka that allowed the message to travel through Microservices to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC. Used Maven, automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j. Implemented unique design patterns such as singleton, business factory and J2EE design patterns. Used Maven as a build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with GitHub, Jenkins Jobs. Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management. Involved in converting SQL queries into Apache Spark transformations using Apache Spark RDDs andScala. Environment: HTML5, CSS, jQuery, AJAX, NodeJS, APIGEE, Java1.8, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP UI, XML, SQL Server, Docker, AWS, Spring Boot, Swagger-UI, Log4j, Selenium, Jenkins, JIRA, Maven, GIT, WebSphere, COBOL DB2. Java/ J2EE Full Stack Developer Confidential, Crozet, VA Responsibilities: Involved in Brain Storming sessions, Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks stories. Used Design Patterns like Singleton, MVC, Front Controller, Service Locator, Session Facade and DAO Developed the web application by using Prime Faces employing AJAX at client -side components which enables rich web application content in GUI's. Worked on Spring modules like Dependency Injection, Aspect Oriented Programming and Spring Mail, Spring JMS and Spring Security. Involved in development of Agent Verification System using Spring MVC framework. Extensively used Hibernate mappings, HQL, EHCache, Query, Lazy loading Transactions and Lockings. Developed Batch Rescore Tool to rescore multiple claims using Multithreading. AngularJS/Rest angular framework for page rendering and ajax calls to backend RESTful services. Worked on MVC framework like AngularJS as a development framework to build single page applications. Web application development for backend system usingAngularJS and Node.js with cutting edge. Experience with jQuery, AngularJS in templating and Bootstrap. UI development with technologies like HTML 5, Angular JS and Jquery. Used jQuery to make the application highly interactive and used JSON objects for efficient client-side coding. Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, AJAX, JSON, and JavaScript, Bootstrap. Used Spring JMS to post and consume the messages from the IBM MQ Server. Used Spring Mail for sending emails to the customers and business. Extensively used hibernate named queries, criteria queries, Hibernate Query Language and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database. Integrated Java systems with.Net systems using BizTalk integration tool. Responsible for design of WSDL files and schemas. Designed and hosted SOAP-based Web Services on WebSphere Application Server. Implemented Quartz jobs for running the batch jobs based on the cron triggers configured in the Spring files. Involved in deploying and testing the application in JBoss application server. Used MongoDB as a NoSQL for storing JSON data. Responsible for continuous monitoring and managing Elastic Map Reduce cluster through AWS console. Setup and effectively use SOAP Monitor tool supplied with Apache axis to track SOAP request and response sent to and from ATLAS Webservice on daily basis. Implemented validation rules using JBoss BRMS (Business Rule Management System), a version of DROOLS. Log4j, Active MQ Series, Soap Webservices with Apache CXF 2.3/ JAX-RPC/ JAX-WS, JSON Rest Webservice. Developed Unit /Integration test cases using JUnit, Easy Mock, Mockito and Selenium tools. Used Ant/Maven tools for building and deploying the Web applications. Environment: Java 1.7, Spring, JPA, Hibernate, Web services, jQuery, jQuery UI, AJAX, JavaScript, Jenkins, Web Sphere 8.5, CVS, Google Guava, IBM MQ, NoSQL, Mockito, Spring MQ, Spring MVC, Web Services, SOAP UI, Prime Faces, JAXB, WSDL, Scala, XSD, AWS, XML, XML Spy, BRMS,SQL, BizTalk Server 2010, Microsoft Visual Studio 2010, DB2, SQL Server 2010, Microsoft Visio, Eclipse, WinSQL, Squirrel SQL. Sr. Java Developer Confidential, Naples, FL Responsibilities: Involved in all the phases of software development lifecycle including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development, Deployment and Customization of the Application. Developed UI using HTML, CSS and jQuery to display the data on the client side.Wrote Single page web applications using NodeJs as server side, GULP, WEBPACK, Restful web services plus AJAX and Angular JS. Developed a dashboard based on Ajax calls with Business Customers Count, Flags, Real-time graphs for Analytical Reporting using NodeJs and Wrote code to fetch data from web services using jQuery AJAX for asynchronous communication via JSON response and updating the modified data to display in UI pages. Called web services with REST Architecture to specify constraints through Angular JS services to get XML file data. Involved in implementation of enterprise application communication and integration with Web Services and Legacy Systems using REST (Using Axis and Jersey frameworks). Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collections framework extensively to store, retrieve and manipulate data objects of application in the business logic layer. Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and another dependent object declaration. Used J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Session Façade Business Delegate during development. Developed Microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each micro-service in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway. Used Spring Transactions in the application and spring beans to develop Session beans for the business logic. Spring MVC Framework IOC design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. It is also used to separate the application configuration and dependency specification from the actual application code. Implemented spring service layer with dependency wiring, transaction, DAO, Annotations for DI Designed and developed Application based on Spring Framework, Spring MVC and spring templates, Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with Hibernate DAOs for ORM mapping. Composed and executed MongoDB document scripts to insert, update the NoSQL database, automating data changes, reporting and wrote MongoDB client to receive data from AMC for Companies. Used NoSQL MongoDB database to provide recommendations on Performance tuning for applications. Used the Hibernate framework in the persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database. Worked on Pivotal Cloud Foundry to host Application which used to role-based access controls, applying, enforcing roles and permissions to ensure that users can only view and affect the spaces for which they have been granted access. Re-architect monolithic service into micro services-based architecture using spring boot and pivotal cloud foundry. Used Selenium Data Driven framework for testing the application and integrating it with Maven Build Management Tool, TestNG Unit Testing tool and Jenkins Continuous Integration Tool for the continuous delivery pipeline. Created and configured management reports and dashboard using Splunk by identifying data patterns, metrics. Used Maven as the Build tool. Experienced in using assistant tools such as GIT to access the code repository and version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache). Implemented the logging using a log4j framework which is used to log both User Interface and Domain Level Messages. Environment: J2EE 1.8, spring 4.0, Hibernate 4.0, AJAX, JMS 1.1, XML, SOAP, WSDL, REST, JDBC, JAX-WS 2.2, JavaScript 1.8.2, AngularJS, NodeJS, UML, HTML5, JAXB 2.2, SVN, Log4J, JMeter, WebSphere 8.5 Application Server, Eclipse, Oracle 11g, Maven, Jasmine, Karma, Protractor, Jira. Java Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Developed UNIX shell scripts for applications and wrote shell scripts for FTP files from one location to another. Designed use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams as a part of Design Phase using Rational Rose. Developed application implementing MVC Architecture integrating JSF with Hibernate and Spring frameworks. Responsible for some enhancements to the existing project Developed the Enterprise Java Beans (Stateless Session beans) to handle different transactions such as online funds transfer, bill payments to the service providers. Developed deployment descriptors for the EJB to deploy on Web Sphere Application Server. Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Apache Axis, SOAP. Developed XML documents and generated XSL files for Payment Transaction and Reserve Transaction systems. Worked on AJAX to develop an interactive Web Application and JavaScript for Data Validations. Build ANT Script for the application and used Log4J for debugging. Used JUnit Framework for the unit testing of all the java classes. Environment: Jdk 1.5, EJB 2.0, Hibernate, Spring IOC, HTML, JavaScript, XML, CSS, UML, SOAP, Ajax, JUnit, Ant, Eclipse, Linux, My SQL. 