SUMMARY Over 7 years’ experience involved as Java/J2EE /UI Developer in Object Oriented development, implementation and maintenance of web and distributed Enterprises applications using JAVA/J2EE and UI technologies. Expertise in Object Oriented analysis and design applying J2EE patterns. Experience in Architecture, Designing, Development and Deployment of High - Performance, Scalable, Distributed Applications. Strong working experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) process like Prototype, Rapid Application Development (RAD), Waterfall, Agile Scrum, and Test-driven development methodologies. Expertise in Core javaconcepts likes OOPS, Data structures & algorithms, Collections, Multithreading, Exceptional handling, I/O and java. Lang Package. Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Struts, Spring, JSF, AJAX frameworks (Rich Faces, My Faces) and ORM frameworks like Hibernate. Strong experience in back-end coding for Microsoft SQL Server, IBM DB2, Oracle 8i/9i/11g, MySQL using procedures/Functions, cursors, triggers and packages in PL/SQL. Experience in NoSQL databases like Cassandra, Mongo DB 2.x. Experienced in establishing connectivity from front end to back end using JDBC connections. Experience in developing Web Applications with various Open SourceSpring Framework (Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, DAO, JDBC),Struts2.x Framework, Hibernate 3.0 ORM. Experience in developing business components using Spring Boot, Spring AOP, Spring AOC, EHCache framework, Spring Annotations. Expertise in developing the distributed applications using EJB 2.0/ EJB 3.0 specification and J2EE Application Servers such as Glassfish, Jboss 5.x/6.x/7.x, Apache Tomcat 5.0/7.0/8.0, WebSphere 6.x/7.x, BEA Web Logic 8/9/11. Implemented Rich User Interfaces using Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AngularJS 2.0 and AJAX. Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM. Strong knowledge of Design including J2EE Design Patterns Singleton, MVC, DAO, Business Delegate, Front Controller etc. Extensively worked on implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)using XML Web Services (SOAP, WSDL). Good knowledge on Amazon Web Services(AWS), Amazon Cloud Services like Elastic Compute Cloud(EC2),Simple Storage Service(S3),Amazon Simple DB, Amazon Cloud Watch, SNS, SQS, LAMBDA and experienced in building highly scalable java applications using various architectures. Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, AMQP as JMS provider. Good experience in producing and consuming the Web Services - REST using Jersey, JSON, JAX-RS and Web Services - SOAP using WSDL, UDDI, JAXB and SOAPUI. Hands on the tools such as Eclipse, Text pad, Edit plus, JCreator, Linuxvi editor, etc. Experience in using AWS with both EC2 and S3 services for application backup and recovery. Worked extensively on various flavors of UNIX operating system like Linux, Solaris. Specialized in developing APIs for web applications using MEAN stack technologies MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, and Node.js. Experience with build tools includes Ant, Maven and Gradle for deployment and customizing WAR/JAR file management for web applications. Designing and editing GUI with innovation and creativity with the help of graphs, charts, other diagrams. Experience and deep knowledge in bug tracking tools like JIRA, Bugzilla and source code management tools like GIT, CVS, SVN and Visual Source safe(VSS). Experience in unit testing the applications using JUnit Framework and developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4J. Wrote Unix Shell scripts for system administration. Experience in Using Enterprise Service Bus(ESB) for integrating different applications by putting a communication bus between them. Extremely diligent and possess good communication skills. Strong analytical and Problem-solving skills. Ability to quickly master new concepts and applications. Used Ant, Maven 3.x for build, Bamboo, Jenkins1.4.1 for continuous integration. Involved in meetings to gather information and requirements from the clients. Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse3.x,5.x,7.x, MyEclipse6.x,8.x, NetBeans 8.x,JBuilder 9.x/8.x. Research-oriented, motivated, proactive, self-starter with strong technical, analytical and interpersonal skills. Provides documentation to support program changes. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: Unix, Linux, Windows 2000, Windows NT Languages: Core Java (Multithreading, Collections, and MQ series), UML, XML, SQL, JavaScript, Unix Shell script, HTML.XHTML, PL/SQL, Ajax, and CSS. Scripting Languages: JavaScript, Perl Script, Shell Script, Power shell, Ajax, JQuery, AngularJs Databases: IBM DB2, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, My SQL 5.1, SQL Server 9.0, Microsoft Access Web Services: XML-RPC, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP, REST Web Centric Tech: Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, EJB, JMS Frameworks: Spring MVC, Hibernate, Struts MVC, Struts, Junit IDEs: Eclipse 3.1, NetBeans 4.X, IBM Rational Application Developer 5.0 J2EE Technologies: JDBC, JNDI, RMI, EJB, Java Beans, Gradle, Groovy. Build Tools: TOAD, Axis, SQL Plus, MICROSOFT VISIO, Rational Rose, ANT, MAVEN, Log4J, eclipse subversion, Team City, Tortoise SVN, CVS, ClearQuest, MicrosoftVisio Internet: XML, XSL, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON App/Web Servers: Web logic 8.1/11g, IBM WebSphere 6.1, Jboss, Apache, Tomcat  4.1/5.5/5.6/7.0  Design Patterns: Singleton, Data Access Objects, Value Objects, Template Method, Business Interface, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Model View Controller Fure and Front Controller. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, TX Java Developer Responsibilities: Worked as a team member of Agent Desktop team that is involved in creating, modifying, and updating an interface by using varied technologies for the customer facing employees to use. Involved in analysis, design, and development phases of the application of client using Scrum Agile methodology at level 2 which requires team members to perform all the skills in SDLC life cycle like converting the business requirements into JIRA stories, developing the code to fulfill the requirements and testing end to end (functional and regression). Actively involved in SMDU project which involves modifying the existing constraints before sending to internal clients and other projects which involved estimating, analyzing, calculating, and coding the key factors to estimate the probability of default and redefault of customers. Analyzing the Functional Specifications and Design Documents. Designed, developed, and modified several UI screens using Web technologies like Google Web Toolkit (GWT) Involved in Development by applying expertise in J2EE, Core JAVA concepts, Visual Basic .net, Collections, Multithreading and Webservices. The backend code (Internal Plan modification decisions) is written using Spring (2.5) and Hibernate (3.0) framework. Worked on enhancements of existing modules and creating new modules. Used SVN, GIT for importing, rebasing, and delivering the application to the source control. Used SOAP and WSDL Web Services and microservices for accessing and providing the Services to other Applications. Worked on normalization of requirements for the reports. Developed reports using Crystal Reports. Wrote Complex queries, stored procedures and worked on performance tuning of SQL queries. Wrote ETL logic to load data from vendor tables to local database for using in Java programming. Developed functionalities to create Data Transfer Objects (DTO), and Data Access Objects (DAO). Used Maven to manage Project’s build and dependencies. And Jenkins tool for deployments to environments. Involved in designing test plans and testing the application on DEV/QA environment and also automating the test cases using selenium/cucumber. Created shell scripts and updated the scripts as per the requirement. Developed scripts for inbound and outbound of the data on servers. Analyzing the client requirements and production issues. Participated in daily scrum meetings to discuss about the work done the before day, current day’s work and to let the team mates know if there are any road blocks. Participated in Retrospective meetings after every sprint to discuss about the overall ranking of the pervious sprint and to discuss about the drawbacks and scope for development. Environment: Java (JDK 1.6/1.7), Visual Basic .Net (7.0), Informatica Power Centre (9.6.4), GWT framework, Soap Web Services, Oracle DB, Eclipse Mars, SVN, Sql Developer, Maven, Spring Core (inversion of control/aspectoriented programming), Hibernate, Selenium Testing, Crucible, Apache Tomcat Server, Unix Shell Scripting, Log4J (Logging), Putty, HP ALM, SVN, Collections, Core Java, Exception Handling, Jira, Jenkins, SOAP UI, Gaia Private Cloud technologies. Confidential - Burlington, NC Java Developer Responsibilities: Worked as a team member of enterprise architecture team that is involved in designing architecting, and developing both internal and external applications. Involved in analysis, design and development phases of the application of client using Scrum Agile methodology. Actively involved in creating PoCs to use business process management tool jBPM 6.2.0 and rules engine drools 5.5. Actively involved in Work Queue project which is a generalized framework to be used throughout Confidential Corp domains to automate several tasks and reduce human intervention. Used GIT for importing, rebasing and delivering the application to the source control. Involved in setting up the application server profiles in eclipse for running the application on development environment. Developed functionalities to create Data Transfer Objects (DTO), and Data Access Objects (DAO). The backend code (External Claims Interface) is written using Spring (2.5) and Hibernate (3.0) framework. Developed the persistence layer using Spring ORM with Hibernate annotations, EJB3.0/JPA. Set mapping association levels between all entities (POJO). Involved in mapping the data transfer objects to JSON objects that are used by the model objects which are sent over to the client side. Used RESTful API to create and consume Webservices. Actively involved in the integration of various modules and code reviews. Worked with lead designer to provide various solutions in developing functionalities. Configured and Deployed application on Web Sphere application server. Used UNIX scripts to automate administration tasks on Web Sphere application server. Involved in designing test plans, test cases and overall Unit testing of the system. Environment: IFL; zVM; zLinux (z/VM 6.3, RHEL 5.11), IBM Integration Bus (v9.0.0.2), WebSphere Application Server (8.5), Java (IBM JDK 7.x), JAX-RS 2.0 (RESTful API framework), Unix Shell scripting, Jersey (Idk; Implementation of RESTful API), Moxy (v.2.5.0; Un-/Marshalling JSON), Log4J (Logging), Spring Core (v.4.1.1; inversion of control/aspectoriented programming), Hibernate (v. 4.3.7; ORM). Confidential, Thomasville, NC Web Application Developer Responsibilities: Involved in analysis, design and development and testing phases of the application development using Scrum Agile methodology. Responsible for end to end development of the applications Coupon Maintenance and Coupon Generator. Used JSF for internal report generation by fetching data from database with customized view using CSS and AJAX for form processing. ImplementedMessage Driven BeanUsingJMS Implemented enterprise applications with JQuery, AngularJs and Spring MVC, Perl Script. Implemented applications using twitter Bootstrap framework to improve the responsiveness of web pages. Worked on SASS for inheritance and color, page layout, and all designing concepts and converted to CSS file. Extensively used Angular UI (Bootstrap) for ng-grid, and UI components. Applied techniques for cross-browser and cross-platform interface development (Angular JS). Defined and developed the application's presentation layer using JSP’s along with HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. Implemented the service using Node.js for performance, development, maintenance and deployment reasons. Wrote Soap Web Services following the Bottom-up approach. Used annotation based CDI Beans integrated with EJB 3.1 Session Beans to interact with DAO Layer. Developed pom files for all supported projects when migrating to mavenized projects. Involved in code reviews and designs and fixing check style issues. Developed few Servlets for specific work flows Wrote Java Stand-alone batch processes consuming web services and are scheduled to run every week. Used JPA entities and JPQL queries as part of persistence layer. Developed and maintained UNIX scripts for build and release tasks. Used Maven to manage Project’s build and dependencies. And Team city tool for deployments to environments. Tested the application functionality using JUNIT test cases and Selenium tool. Used Weblogic Application Server 12.1.3 and involved in setting up the application server profiles in Eclipse for running the application on development environment. Developed complex database queries and involved in performance tuning of queries. Technologies Involved: Java, Jquery, Javascript, SQL, Oracle 10g, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Junit, Jenkins, XML, and HTML. Environment: Java (JDK 1.6/1.7), JSF, Soap Web Services, EJB, JS, web logic server 12.1.3, DB2, Oracle, Eclipse Kepler, SVN, Squirrel, I-Navigator, Maven, Unix Shell Scripting, Selenium Testing, AngularJs, Oracle11g/10g, SQL, Drop wizard, Perl Script, Maven, Jenkins HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, SonarQube. Confidential, Cary, NC Web Application Developer Responsibilities: Involved in analysis, design and development and testing phases of the application development using Scrum Agile methodology. Analyze the user requirement and documented design documents for the changes. Interact with the testing team and coordinate with developers in fixing bugs and enhance the existing functionality based on the user requirements. Used Spring MVC and Web Flow to bind web parameters to business logic. Implemented cross cutting concerns like business transactions, security, Logging and monitoring mechanism using Spring AOP. Maintained relationship between objects using Spring IOC. Used Hibernate Object Relational Mapping features for creating the entity domain objects and base hibernate support features for creating data access layer objects. Involved in creating, modifying and updating database tables in Oracle using the tools like Toad. Involved in writing the controllers that react to the navigation of user interactions with the services. Involved in mapping the data transfer objects to JSON objects that are used by the model objects which are sent over to the client side. Used Google’s GSON library to convert Java Objects into their JSON representation and also to convert a JSON string to an equivalent Java Object. Used Jquery plugins like data tables, autocomplete, date picker, dialog, menu, text editor, tabs and handlebars as front end technologies for easy user interactions. Extensively used Node.js Npm libraries for build the server side. Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery Wrote the code for CSS Background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, CSS table, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors in CSS Wrote code to perform Form Validations using JQuery and JavaScript. Designed and develop creative intuitive User Interface(UI) that address as per client’s requirements Involved in configuring JMS and JNDI in rational application developer. Used Javascript and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and RESTful web service calls. Thoroughly used MS SQL Server as database for development and integration testing environments. Used WebSphere Application Server 7.0 and involved in setting up the application server profiles in RAD for running the application on development environment. Developed complex database queries and involved in performance tuning of queries. Involved in writing service class objects that depend on the data access objects. Technologies Involved: Java, Jquery, Javascript, SQL, Oracle 10g, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Junit, Jenkins, XML, and HTML. Environment: Java 1.5, MS SQL Server 2005, Rapid Application Developer 7.5.5.5, WebSphere Application Server 7.0, Struts, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Hibernate, Tiles, Velocity, Javascript, AJAX, JSON, Jquery, Junit, Mockito, Clear Case, Toad, SQL Server Management Studio, SOAPUI, Autosys. Confidential, Illinois, Chicago Sr. J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Analysis, design and coding of business modules and functionalities. Analyzed project requirements and provided required technical assistance to team members. Worked on creation of session beans, Message Driven Beans. Worked on creation of various modules using spring framework, JSP. Implemented load balancing and clustering functionalities. Worked on enhancements of existing modules. Developed the presentation layer using JSP, JSF, Tag libraries, HTML, CSS and client validations using JavaScript. Used SOAP and WSDL Web Services for accessing and providing the Services to the other Applications. Worked on JMS for the messaging services. Developed State full and Stateless Entity beans to provide the back end Business Logic and Deployed in the Web logic Application Server. Worked on normalization of requirements for the reports. Developed reports using Crystal Reports. Wrote Complex queries, stored procedures and worked on performance tuning of SQL queries. Developed functionalities to create Data Transfer Objects (DTO), and Data Access Objects (DAO). Configured and Deployed application on Web Logic application server. Assisted other team members to resolve complex problems. Wrote SQL queries for efficiently retrieving data from the database. Component driven UI design model JSF for designing UI screens documented detailed design and code at various stages of development. Actively involved in the integration of various modules and code reviews. Worked with project architect and lead designer to provide various solutions in developing functionalities. Wrote test cases and procedures for Unit Testing using Junit. Used Hibernate mapping for connecting to the database. Mapped required java classes to database using Hibernate. Environment: JSP, Spring, SOAP, WSDL, Webservices, JMS, EJB, JSTL, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, XML, HTML, IBM, WebSphere, DB2, Eclipse, Log4J, AXIS, ANT, Rational Rose, SVN. Confidential Jr. JAVA Developer Responsibilities: Designed the User Interface for Registering and Updating of Administration Module. Designed and developed WSDL and XML Schemas for access using Web Service Clients. Created User Interface by using JSP, CSS and for client validations used JavaScript. Used Stateless Session Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) to encapsulate the business logic. Implemented MVC architecture and DAO design pattern for maximum abstraction and code reusability. Used SAX and DOM parsers to save data in database and to render details on JSP. Involved in coding for the Modules like Updating and Registering and generated Reports for admitted patients and discharged patients. Implemented cross cutting concerns like business transactions, security, Logging and monitoring mechanism using spring AOP. Maintained relationship between objects using Spring IOC and used Hibernate framework for developing the persistence layer. Environment: Java 1.4, JSP, JavaScript, CSS 2.0, Servlets, EJB 2.0, WSDL, JDBC, XML, SQL, PL/SQL, Web sphere 6.0, Spring 2.0 and Hibernate 3.0. 