SUMMARY 8+ years of professional IT experience as a Software Developer in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) includes Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing and Implementation of applications on Java and Web technologies using Agile - Scrum methodologies Strong experience in Programming languages like Java, J2EE, C, C++, Python. Extensive experience on Java / J2EE Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Factory, Value Objects, Business Delegate, and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). Extensive development experience in web applications using Java 7/8, J2EE 6/5, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JSF and APIs like JDBC, JNDI, XML, JavaBeans, Portlets. Proficient in implementing SOA architecture using Web Services technologies using REST, SOAP and XML. Expertise on Web UI development using JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, XSLT, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and WebStorm. Expertise in object modeling and Object-Oriented design methodologies (UML). Experience in creating UML diagrams like Class, Object, Use Case, State and Activity diagrams Expertise in developing responsive web design applications with Single Page Applications (SPAs) Framework using AngularJS. Experience in developing SQL, Stored Procedures, functions, triggers using Oracle 11g and comfortable with databases like SQL Server, MySQL, NoSQL, DB2 and PL/SQL. Strong experience in implementing MVC framework like Struts 2.x, Spring 3.x/4.x and ORM tools like Hibernate in J2EE architecture Generated XML files for the configuring beans in Spring MVC and jobs in Spring Batch. Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot. Experienced in implementing enterprise integration patterns using Apache Camel framework. Developed REST Web services using JAX-RS and Jersey to perform transactions from front end to our backend applications, response is sent in JSON or XML formats based on the use cases. Experience in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications using Node.js that interacts with Mongo DB and performed CRUD operation on MongoDB. Strong experience in deploying J2EE components on JBoss, Tomcat5.x/6.x/7.x, BEA WebLogicand WebSphere application servers. Extensively used IDE for Application development like Eclipse, Net Beans, and RAD. Experienced in database GUI/IDE Tools using TOAD, DB Visualizer and MySQL Client Working experience with the operating systems like Windows, Linux and UNIX Extensively used Python requests module to callWeb Servers Expertise on build tools like Ant, Maven, Jenkins and Bamboo. Expertise on usingLog4j for Logging and JUnit, Mockito and Jira for testing. Strong analytical, interpersonal and communications skills and ability to quickly grasp business ideas and requirements. Good team player with the ability to solve problems, prioritize multiple tasks and to adopt new technology TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Java, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++, Python Java/J2EE Technologies: Servlets, EJB 1.x/2.x/3.x, JSP, AJAX, JMS, JNDI, JSF 2.x, JDBC 2.x, Spring 3/4 Frameworks: SpringMVC, Spring 3/4, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Struts 2.x, AngularJS 1.4/2, WebStorm Web Technologies: HTML,HTML5, Java Script,XML, XSLT, CSS,CSS3, AJAX,JQuery, JSON, XSD, REST API,SOAP, Jersey RDBMS: Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i,PL/SQL, MySQL, NoSQL, DB2, Mongo-DB Web/Application Servers: Tomcat 7.x/6.x/5.x, Apache Camel, WebLogic 10.3/9.2/8.1/7.0, WebSphere 8.1/8.2,JBoss 4.0/7.0, Glassfish Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, UNIX IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD Version Control Tools:  Confidential, SVN, GIT Other Tools: Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Bamboo, JUnit,Mockito,Jira,Log4j, Jasper Reports, SOAP UI, Kafka Methodologies: SDLC, Agile-Scrum, UML, SOA PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Kansas City Full Stack Java Developer Responsibilities: Developed UI screens with multiple wizards, actions and pages using Eclipse RCP plugin framework. Involved in development of business components using RCP/RAP plugin development and OSGiFramework. Used the lightweight container of the Spring Frame Work to provide architectural flexibility for Inversion of controller (IOC) Used Hibernate ORM to automate the mapping between SQL databases and objects in Java. Designed and implemented database structure in Oracle database. Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries. Involved in producing and consuming annotations of SOAP web services using JAX-WS. Configured Maven and wrote POM file to install the libraries and dependencies into the projects. Implemented build scripts for compiling, building and deploying the application on server using Ant, Maven and Jenkins. Used JIRA as a defect tracking system for all projects, and SVN as a code repository to manage project code. Used Log4j to monitor the error logs. Environment: RCP, Swing, Spring Framework, Hibernate, HQL, SQL, JMS, Log4j, JUnit, JavaScript, SOAP, XML, Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Log4j, Jira Confidential, Chicago IL Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Involved in various phases of SDLC of the application using Scrum methodology. Developed the application using Struts, Servlets and JSP for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for the client-side validations. Used Hibernate to do the object relational mapping between the tables andJavaobjects. Developed web applications using Java/J2EE technologies MVC and Spring Boot. Used Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for Microservices. Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot and used various component classes to customize the monitoring of Microservices. Deployed and tested the application with Web Server Tomcat, WebSphere. Developed GUI using Front end technologies like JSP, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3 and Java Script Developed a code which generated XML document, which in turn used XSLT to translate the content into HTML to present to GUI. Integrated the spring framework with Hibernate ORM tool to access the Oracle database Developed a Web-based authentication technologies usingOAuth Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins and Bamboo for continuous Integration process. Implemented RESTful Web services in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from AngularJS and parsed the data to client and handled the security. Developed Spring-Jersey REST resources to serve the web application with JSON data. Implemented JavaScript and JQuery technologies for validating the input given to the user interface. Extensively usedPythonrequests module to call web services and for extracting data from HTML files. Used Junitfor test cases andLog4j to print info, warning and error data on to the logs. Setting up Linux servers with JBossand GITrepository. Used Jira to publish daily defect reports to the management. Environment: Java, Spring, Spring Boot, Microservices, Hibernate, HTML, XML, XSLT, JMS, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JBoss, AngularJS, RESTful, SOA, WebSphere, SOAP UI, Git, Oracle, Python, Maven, Jenkins, Bamboo, Jira, JUnit, Log4j Confidential - Brenham, TX Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Analysis, troubleshooting, administrating, production deployment and Development through Agile principles. Developed the user interfaces using Web 2.0, AJAX, JSP, Struts, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and DHTML. Generalized top link mapping template for the application so that top link related code could be separated from the actual DAO implementation. Worked on MVC framework preferably Web Work and STRUTS 2.0 with spring dependency injection for application customization and upgrade. Used multiple Action Controllers to control the page flow, Interceptors for client validations Used Spring ORM package as an integration layer for ORM mapping API's, including Hibernate. Design application using new themes and custom templates and user interface by using JSP, HTML, XML, XSLT, CSS and JavaScript. as per Verizon business new theme requirement. Used AJAX to get faster response to the user without refreshing the whole page, to develop and customize the dynamic web pages. Developed APIs using PL/SQL to interact with the oracle database. Design and develop Customer event API with all CRUD capabilities. Developed Several REST API supporting both XML and JSON to perform tasks such as demand-response management. REST API leveraged by both web and mobile applications A generalized component according spring framework to retrieve appropriate service for the required functionality. Developed XML Schema, DOM, XSLT code for XML documents, used for data transfer between front-end and middleware layers. Used XML Processing (JAXP) enables applications to parse, transform, validate and query XML documents. Angular JS is used to develop web apps Developed a module as SPA using Angular JS with Angular routers and controllers. Generated Web services implementation classes using WebLogic, Clientgen to connect to VzWireless and CMC to utilize their services and used SOAP UI tool to monitor the same. Used WS-Security concepts for implementing secured web services to restrict only for prescribed users to secure customer information. Implemented the integration of STRUTS and SPRING IOC and injected spring beans to struts action classes. Developed Email Templates and Email Notification functionality using HTML, DHTML and XHTML as per business requirement. Used Jenkins for Continuous integration. Installed SonarQube plugin in Jenkins and integrated with project maven script. Environment: J2EE, MVC, Struts 1.3, Java, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, JSTL, JUnit, XML, HTML, JavaScript, JBPM, Informix, Confidential, UNIX, Windows XP, UML, Eclipse 3.0, Web logic 8.0 Application Server, Jenkins. Confidential, Chicago, IL Java/J2EE developer Responsibilities: Followed Agile-Scrum methodology for iterative development of the application. Implemented application using Spring MVC framework and collection frameworkand several design patterns. Extensively used Spring IOC, configured application Context files and use of dependency injection using Spring annotations. Application built onJavaFinancial platform, which is an integration of several technologies likeStrutsandSpring Web Flowby utilizing Spring Java Configuration. DevelopedSQL queriesandStored Proceduresfor retrieving the data from several databases Deployed J2EE components like EJB, Servlets in WebLogic Application server. Developed front end design using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript andJQuery. Implemented Spring Controllers that integrates with front-end JSP pages developed using Spring Tag library. Followed top down approach to implement SOAP andRESTful Web Services. Used Junitto perform Integration testing and involved in bug fixing. Used Maven to build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system. Used Confidential as a control version tool Used different deployment environments by utilizing Apache Tomcat server. Environment: Java, Spring MVC, Hibernate ORM, EJB, Struts, Apache Tomcat, CSS, HTML, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, tag libraries, XML, Agile Methodology, UNIX, WebLogic, JUnit, Maven, Jenkins, Confidential, SOAP and RESTful Web Services Confidential, Denver, CO Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Implemented Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC and AOP technologies and followed Agile Methodology. Implemented the business layer by using Hibernate with Spring DAO and developed mapping files and POJO java classes using ORM tool. Developed stored procedures, Triggers and Functions to process the trades using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and established data integrity among all tables sitting on Oracle Database using JDBC API. Designed and developed web pages to display the account transactions and details pertaining to that account using JSP, JSON, HTML, Spring Web Flow, AJAX, CSSand used JavaScript validations to validate the user registration screen and login screen. Used Bootstrap to improve user experience. Used jasper reports for generating customer reports. Servlets are used to service requests from UIto manipulate Business Objects and invoke respective Action Classes for making database updates. Used JUnit for unit testing and Log4j for tracking errors and debugging the code. Wrote build deployment scripts using Ant and shell scripts on UNIXenvironment and deployed the application in Web Sphere App Server. Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring MVC, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JMS, AJAX, JSON, Web Sphere, Jasper, Log4j, JUnit, Ant, Shell, UNIX, PL/SQL, Oracle Confidential - San Francisco, CA Jr. Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the implementation of design using SDLC that includes Development, Testing and Agile methodology. Applied J2EE design patterns and OOAD principles for the analysis and design of the system. Developed front-end screens using JSP, HTML, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript and CSS. Used Spring Framework and Hibernateframeworkfor developing business objects. Used RSA to create the Class and Sequence Diagrams and Performed data validation inStruts. Used WebSphere Application Server to deploy the build. Log4j framework and JUnit has been used for logging debug, info & error data. Used Oracle 10g for data persistence and SQL Developeras a database client. Used WinSCPto transfer file from local system to other system. Used Ant script and Cruise Control to build and manage the project. Environment: RSA7.0, Java5.0, Design Patterns, Web sphere, J2EE (Servlet, JSP), HTML, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate3.0, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, SQL Developer, Ant, Cruise Control, WinSCP, Log4j, JUnit. Confidential Jr. Software Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Designing Market Interface (MI) Flow usingHibernateFramework for Object Relational Mappings andSpringFramework for Dependency Injection. Designed and implemented XML to provide the interface to the various clients running on bothJavaand Non-Javaapplications. Maintaining Database using MySQL. Designed and Coded J2EE components using Hibernate. Developed Web Services which communicates with different other applications using SOAP. DevelopedJSP, JQuery and HTMLhave been used for developing User Interface components. Experience in development unit tests with JUnit, Spring Test API and other related technologies. Performed the integration testing and Maven for building the web application framework. Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP,Hibernate3, JMS, Spring framework 3.0, MySQL, XML,JQuery, SOAP, HTML, Maven, Eclipse. 