SUMMARY 5y experience in Developing Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE, in Windows & Linux Environment. Experience in handling the complete software development Impact Analysis, Program specification, preparation, Code review. Excellent knowledge in MVC frame work to design web applications Experience in development of SOAP Web services using JAX - WS, WSDL and XML Experience of J2EE Web Applications Design and Development. Experience in UI technologies HTML, JSP, JAVASCRIPT and XML. Experience in working with Multithreading, Collections and Generics in Java. Excellent in implementing Object Oriented Programming (OOP) techniques and d Experience of writing SQL queries in Oracle and DB2. Installation and administration of Tomcat and WebSphere application servers. Experience in using development tools like Eclipse and InteliJ. Experience in Requirement gathering and documenting them. Knowledge in managing and providing immediate solutions in level 2 support team. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: Core Java, J2EE, Servlet, JDBC, Multithreading, Collections, Generics, Web services, Hibernate, Spring MVC, SQL Web Based Languages: HTML, JSP Scripting Languages: JavaScript Databases: DB2, Oracle Servers: Tomcat, WebSphere application server IDE: IntelliJ, Eclipse, NetBeans Operating Systems: Windows and Linux PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Libertyville, IL Java developer, Support Responsibilities: Experience in developing Frameworks like Microservices and Spring boot. Worked with developing in jsp, servlate and spring frameworks. Attended the Business and Functional Requirement Document (BRD) review meetings conducted by BA team to better understand the application functionality and to gather Solution Design Document (SDD) to create the Test Plan and Test Scenarios Work with Stakeholders on defining and managingthe requirements, change requests, test process, test plan, tasks, estimates, deliverables, defect and execution status reports, forecasts, metrics, issues, risks, expectations, and assumptions. As an admin, responsible for Installing HP ALM Enterprise edition in new user system, User roles management, Customization of HP ALM for different project, Bulk upload of requirements, Test cases and defects, Reporting Project Metrics, and Work flow management through Scripting. Hands on experience on warehouse management tools Oracle JDE Edwards, Radio beacon, High jump and RMA Portal for Order Management, Return Order Management, Inventory Management, Purchasing Management, Quality Management, Sales Management, Financials, WIP, Costing, Planning, AP, AR, and Reporting. WroteSQLqueries to do the column level verification of the Dimension and Fact tables. Involved in testing the data warehouse for both the initial load and the incremental loads of the target. Validated different inbounds and outbound for master data, order process, shipping notification thru flat file, XML File, and EDI file. Designed and developed predefined management reports using Hyperion Reports and Web Analysis, and generated ad hoc reports using Hyperion Excel Add-in and published in Hyperion Workspace. Confidential Java Developer, Support Responsibilities: Analyze requirements and understand the customer process. Works with Change Management/ Release Managers on the evaluation of change events Track incidents and assist the Project manager for planning and delivery of Production defect fixes and Maintenance Releases Strong technical background with a passion for L3 Support and enthusiasm for working in a great team Identify improvements in logging, monitoring and support documentation Ensures monitoring alerts and systems events are assessed, prioritized, and managed Participate in team meetings with representatives from customer. Responsible for technical design documents. Responsible for Data modeling for the database design. Developing Rest Web Services using JAX-RS Developing UI pages using HTML, JSP and JAVASCRIPT. Unit test the application before deploying to QA Environment Fix defects raised by QC team Involved in trainings within the team on functional/Application knowledge. Documenting processes, procedures, modifications and enhancements of the application. Technology: Core Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, HTML, Restful Services, Oracle. Confidential Java Developer, Support Responsibilities: Developed and designed the front-end using HTML, CSS, and JSP. Design and develop in-house built applications and tools that streamline development and support processes Working in a Linux environment Business Application Development Object Oriented Development principles Provide off-hours support on a rotational basis Install, maintain, and customize vendor built software that is utilized by development and support teams Internal Application Development & Support Developed the entire application implementing MVC Architecture integration Struts Framework Involved in developing JSP and Servlets with developed tool Eclipse IDE. Responsible for the development of database SQL queries. Technologies: Java Script, XML, HTML, Apache Tomcat, JDBC, Waterfall Methodology, Oracle, SQL, Windows. 