SUMMARY An experienced Software Engineer having 5+ years of professional experience in IT Industry. Involved in various phases of SDLC Analysis, Design, Development, Maintenance and Implementation of enterprise, web and client server applications using JAVA/JEE/J2EE technologies and object oriented technology. Excellent implementation knowledge of Java, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services using SOAP, REST and JAXB AOP with Spring Framework, Struts, JDBC, EJB, Log4J. Experienced with Core Java concepts such as IO, Multithreading, Collections, Concurrency and Exception Handling. Expertise in SOA technologies creation and consumption of web services (SOAP and RESTFUL) using Apache CXF and Jersey(JAX - RS). Expertise in developing inter-operable Web Services and its related technologies like SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, XML related technologies/tools such as JAXB, XSD, XML with good understanding of JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAX-RPC inter-operable issues. Expertise in developing application components using frameworks like Spring, Hibernate, Struts. Expertise in developing applications using waterfall, RUP and Agile (XP and Scrum), Test First, Test Driven methodologies and good understanding of Service orientation architecture. Expertise in deploying, configuring and administering application servers such as JBoss, WebSphere, Web logic and Apache Tomcat Server. Developed core modules in large cross-platform applications using JAVA, J2EE, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JavaScript, Ajax, Query, XML, and HTML, AngularJS,NodeJS, ExtJS,ReactJS. Solid working experience on XML parsing using SAX, DOM and JAXB parsers. Expertise in development, deployment and troubleshooting Web based and enterprise based applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms. Excellent experience with major relational databases Oracle, MySQL. Strong skills in RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle, IBM DB2 Database Servers and hands on experience with SQL, PL/SQL. Extensive experience in SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with databases such asOracle, IBMDB2 andMS SQL Server 2005. Expertise in using various configuration management tools like Visual Source Safe, SVN and CVS, RTC. Expertise in developing unit testing frameworks using JUnit, DB Unit based on test first or test driven methodology. Created AWS Route53 to route traffic between different regions. Created AWS Security Groups for deploying and configuring AWS EC2 instances. Hands-on experience in Source Code Management, Creating Branches, versioning, tagging and managing Repositories using GIT, SVN. Configured and used JIRA for bug tracking and functional testing. Ability to work effectively on the Linux and OSX platforms. Competencies in system architecture, object oriented analysis (OOA), design (OOD) and design patterns. Experience with UNIX environment through deployment and performance testing of various modules. Expert in creating automation scripts using shell scripting to reduce manual efforts. Good interpersonal Skills, problem-solving skills, strong work ethic with the ability to excel in fast passed and time sensitive environment. Quick learner with strong problem solving and good communication skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Java 8, Java 7,Older versions, C, C++. J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, EJB, Design Patterns. Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, Ant, Maven. Scripting: JQuery, AJAX, UNIX Shell, Log4J. Database: Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, MySQL, Toad, MySQL, Oracle. Web/Application Servers: WebLogic, JBoss, WebSphere Application Server. IDE tools: Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite (STS) XML Technologies: XML, XSLT, DOM, DTD, SAX Web Services: JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS,SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and RESTFUL Web Services Version control: CVS, SVN, Visual Source Safe Web Technologies: HTML, DHTML,CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery,AngularJS. Design Tools: Rational Rose. Operating Systems: Windows, Unix and Linux. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Boston, MA Java Developer Responsibilities: Participated in project planning sessions with business analysts and team members to analyze business IT Requirements and translated business requirements into working model. Worked with onsite and remote team members in a matrix environment. Worked with Onshore team members and participated in work planning team bandwidth and prepared work breakdown structure for offshore. Involved in complete development of ‘Agile Development Methodology/SCRUM’ and tested the application in each iteration Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using RESTful services. Extensive experience in developing, testing and implementing applications using Core Java 7,Java 8. Experienced on Java Portal & Portlets Development and Maintenance. Configured the Application Server Jboss, Tomcat and WebLogic Servers. Developed web application using Struts, Spring MVC. Developed user interface using JSP, HTML and CSS. Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs, JavaScript(JQuery), CSS, HTML and DHTML Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and also implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJS, used fast data access purpose React Js. Extremely used plain JavaScript and JQuery, JavaScript Library to do the client side validations. Developed various backend application programs, such as views, Functions, Triggers, Procedures and Packages using SQL and PL/SQL language for the top management for decision making. Currently involved in building Microservices using Spring Boot deployed on Docker. Created and maintained endpoints in Spring Boot applications following the Microservices pattern for tasks, parts and time-sheet modules. Used Hibernate framework for the backend persistence. Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking. Involved in developing applications using Java and J2EE. Experienced in creating Amazon EC2 instances and setting up security groups. Configured Elastic Load Balancers with EC2 Auto scaling groups. Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with UNIX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs. Used MongoDB, NOSQL database management system for keeping user generated data. Experienced with XML, XSLT, XPath and Web services (REST & Soap). Developed Themes, Layouts and Hooks required for Portal Development. Experienced with JUnit testing framework. Experienced with open source debugging tools like soapUI, FireBug, etc. Environment: Java 8, JSP, Spring 3.0, Soap Web Services, JAXB, Hibernate, JPA, Transact SQL, Maven, Hudson, Jenkins, SVN, JQuery, AJAX, Linux, Adobe CQ5, HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Shell Scripting, deploy, Jboss, Tomcat, WebLogic Servers, Object oriented design/analysis, UML modeling, J2EE patters, Web Services (REST & Soap), Junit, soapUI, FireBug JIIRA,Jenkins. Confidential, Sunnyvale, CA J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development and testing Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using RESTful Developed the service layer, a layer that acts a bridge between the presentation layer and data access layer, with Struts, Spring MVC framework Worked on Spring Controllers and configured using annotations to handle the presentation requests and integrated with services and DAO using annotation. Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans into User Interface and AOP for Logging Configured development environment using WebSphere application server for developer’s integration testing Developed persistence Layer using Hibernate to persist the data and to manage the data Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs,JavaScript(JQuery), CSS, HTML and DHTML Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and also implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJS, used fast data access purposeReact Js. Extremely used plain JavaScript and JQuery, JavaScriptLibrary to do the client side validations. Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Goggle Web Toolkit (UI) and business tier Developed Hibernate configuration files and queries and Implemented DAO classes Developed the Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) as a gateway between the business tier and UI to make the business tier separate from UI Used Maven and Ant build tool and deploying the application. Developed unit testing frame work using JUnit test cases for continuous integration testing and used JTest Tool for performance testing Used SDK such as Eclipse IDE, Toad, SVN etc in this project. Implemented RESTful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Micro Services architecture and used JPA to communicate with Databases. Environment: Java, Hibernate, Spring, XML, Tortoise SVN, JSP, DB2, MVC, J2EE, Agile, JUnit, Maven, UML, JAX-RS, Log4J, Oracle 12g, Agile methodology, JavaScript libraries such as JQuery, AngularJS, Spring Tool Suite,WebSphere Application Server. Confidential Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Designed & Developed Request, Response XML schemas (XSD) for the Module which are part of SOAP request and response. Developed service oriented middleware to in corporate two legacy source systems and published them as web-services. Incorporated source system specific business logic in Java code and exposing them as Web Service as per Base profile specifications 1.0 and WSDL contract. Developed Stateless session beans to parse (parser frame work) and process the user request into domain object (DAO design pattern) to delegate the business request to the business delegate object. Developed necessary parsing and XML construction logic using XML parser APIs JAXB. Developed user interface using JSP, Struts published validation framework to support client side and server side validation. Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring framework to inject dependency into objects and to wire objects of business classes. Developed persistence layer Data access objects using DAO pattern, JDBC, Hibernate. Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs, JavaScript(JQuery), CSS, HTML and DHTML Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and also implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJS Developed custom queries using hibernate criteria, native SQL and HQL. Developed inheritance domain objects using table per class hierarchy strategy. Configured EH Cache to load the static tables into secondary storage area. Used built in stored Procedures to reach the requirements from the Client to improve the response times of the services. Extremely used plain JavaScript and JQuery to do the client side validations. Developed customized SQL for retrieving the data from the database worked with business and client to reach the performance parameters. Developed unit test cases to test business scenarios associated with each use case sequences. Used Customized framework called Pace framework. Used DAO pattern to retrieve the data from database. Used Spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection. Implementing and exposing the Micro services based on RESTful API using SpringBoot. Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database. Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema. Used Web services for sending and getting data from different applications using SOAP messages. Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server. Used JUnit framework for Unit testing of application. Used SDK such as EclipseIDE, Toad, SVN etc in this project. Environment: Java, JEE, Web-Services, SOAP, JAX-RPC, WSDL, WebLogic, Spring(dependency injection, AOP), Hibernate, Oracle 10g Enterprise, Oracle Forms, JavaScript, JUnit, Ant, Clear case, Ajax, Angular Js/Angular 2, JAX RS. Confidential Jr. Java Programmer Responsibilities: Developed Use Cases, Class diagrams and Sequence and Activity diagrams using Rational Rose. Coded Servlet classes in java web server environment. Used JDBC to connect to Oracle8i database. Created web pages using JSP. Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework that are written using HTML and Client-Side validations were done using JavaScript. Used java features such as Generics, Collections API. Prepared EJB deployment descriptors using XML and Used JAXB components for transferring the objects between the application and the database. Debugged the application using firebug and traversed through the nodes of tree using DOM functions. Responsible for setting up AngularJs framework to achieve data binding between HTML elements and JavaScript objects. Used Ajax for asynchronous communication with the server. Wrote SQL/PL-SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Functions in Oracle. Used SVN for version control. Developed test cases using JUnit and tested the application. Used JMS to establish message communication Responsible for the performance PL/ SQL procedures and SQL queries Used CVS for the concurrent development in the team and for code repository Deployed applications on Linux client machines Involved in regression testing, evaluating the response times, and resolving the connection pooling issues Environment: Java 1.6, JDBC, Servlets, SQL, Oracle9i, HTML, JSP, XML, UML, HTML, CSS JavaScript, WebSphere, UNIX, Subversion, AngularJs. 