SUMMARY Over 9+ Years of Experience in Application Design, development and maintenance of web, Windows & Client - Server Applications Using Microsoft Dot Net Technologies Microsoft.Net Framework (4.5.2/4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0/1.0 ), ASP.NET-MVC5.0/4.0/3.0, C#, VB.net, ADO.NET, WebForms, Visual Studio (2015, 2013, 2010, 2008, 2005), IIS 5.0/6.0/7.0/8.0 , Web Services (4.0), CSS, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular 4.0/2.0/1.6/1.5/1.4 and Bootstrap 4.0/3.3 and SQL Server (2005/2008/2012/2014 ). A technology driven committed professional wif 8+ years of experience in the Software Industry as Application Consultant, Technical Lead, Developer, Consultant, SME and Project Coordinator. Having experience working on mobile and web application for Banking, Utilities(Billing Procedures), hospital/Health care Domain. Subject Matter Expert in Web applications wif passion for managing, engineering, re-engineering and delivering enterprise, SOA, Web, Mobile, e-commerce, intranet, contentmanagement& client server solutions. Designed GUI and interfaces wif services for mobile applications, AsynchronousProgramming inXAMARIN.Androidand XAMARIN.Forms As member of a scrum team, partnered wif colleagues to build and test web applications. Specialized inAngular4andAngularJS 1.5 development using JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Twitter Bootstrap, TypeScript 4.0/2.6, LESS, andAngularCLI. PerformedAngular4unit testing usingAngularCLI's Jasmine implementation. Successfully built and managed multiple customized enterpriseAngular4and AngularJS 1.5 web applications. Experience in developing and deploying Web Forms, Win Forms, and Web service applications extensively. Creating React.js / Flux / Redux front-end UI, and Node.js applications. Extensive design experience wif web technologies like HTML5, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript,TypeScript 2.0, JQuery, VBScript, Angular 2.0/1.5, Knockout JS, React JS, Required JS and Knockout JS. Extensive experience in working wif C#, C++, C, ASP.NET, Angular, MVC, SQL Server, WPF, CSS, HTML etc. Expertise in Angular controllers, directives, components, factory and service resources, routings and events. Involved in use ofAngular2.0 technologies to include, Node.js, LESS and additional technologies to ensure current migration from Angular JS 1.6 toAngular2.0. Experience working wif XML, XSLT, XQUERY, and XPATH and worked wif libraries. Expert inObject Oriented analysis and design (OOAD), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)andModel-View-Controller Architectures (MVC). Good experience aboutTFScollaboration platform for upgrading VB.Net applications. Extensive experience wif development & deployment of Web Services (SOAP, UDDI & WSDL). Proficient in using XML related technologies including XSD, XSLT, XSL and XPATH. Excellent experience in implementing WCF, Web API, Restful Serviceswhich communicate data in both XML & JSON. Good Knowledge on migrating projects fromJetbrains Rider to Visual Studio Expertise in enhancing and deploying the SSIS Packages from development server to production server. Using SharePoint 2013 applications andAWS.NETSDKs, transformed and exported internal SharePoint data viaAWSWCF services for external search engine integration using Elastic Search,AWS.NET, XML, JQuery API endpoints. Coding the presentation layer usingWPFand MVVM and service layer using Windows Communication foundation technology. Experience in Multithreading inWPF for performance optimization while accessing data from remote data storage including EDI/XML mapping to business object processes. Worked on clientWPFapplication using C# 6.0, XAML,MVVM, Unity Container, Custom controls and behaviours. Experienced in implementing .NET security features such as Authentication (Windows-based Authentication, Forms-based Authentication) and Authorization (Authorizing Users and Roles). Extensive experience in Building web applications usingKendoUIwidgets, JQuery, Angular. Good Experience wif Unified Modeling Language(UML) standards and documentation and experience in preparing Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams using design tools such as Microsoft Visio. Possess excellent abilities in developing database programs like Store Procedures, Joins, Triggers, Views, Cursors, Packages and implementation scripts on ANSI-SQL, PL/SQL and T-SQL using MY SQL, ORACLE, and SQL SERVER. Experience in designing architectures leveraging WindowsAzureand Windows Workflow Foundation. Worked wif Microsoft Azure, cloud base server for hosting all our project. Hands on experience in creating the reports using Telerik reporting tool. Experience working wif JavaScript, VBScript, JQuery, AngularJs, KnockoutJs, Kendo UI andAJAXin ASP.NET for asynchronous communication and better user experience. Experience in developing Microservices using ASP.NET core Expertise in usingData Binding Controls(Dataset, Data Reader, Data Adapter, Grid View) Worked wifMSMQand used WCF for communicating wif services created for asynchronous document processing usingMSMQandMulti-threading. Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux. Experience in handling databases like MySQL and NoSQL databases likeMongoDB. Experience in usingSSISto validate, Extract, Transform and load data to Database SQL Server and Scheduled Jobs for executing theSSIS Packages. Expert in Database design and development and experience in writingSQL queries, Views, Triggers, Stored Procedures, Cursors, and Joins in SQL Server, Oracle and MS-Access. Experience wif theObject Relational Mapping (ORM)usingLINQ. Experience in using Configuration Management tools likeSVN,Tortoise SVN,VSSandTFS. Experience in working wifCrystal ReportsandSQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). TECHNICAL SKILLS Internet Technologies: Microsoft .NET framework, ASP.NET MVC 3.5/4/5,MVVM, ASP.NET Web forms, AJAX, ASP, ASP.NET CORE, Micro Services, JQUERY, IIS Web Server, WPF,WCF Services, XML Web Services, SharePoint, NHibernate, Control M Programming Languages: C, C++, C#, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL Ninjectand VB 6.0 Distributed Technologies: Restful, Web API, WCF and SOAP Databases: MS Access, MS SQL Server, POSTGRESSQL, Cassandra, NO-SQL, Mongo DB Database Access Technologies: Entity Framework, LINQ, LINQ to objects, ADO.NET UI Technologies: HTML5, Bootstrap 3.0, typescript 2.0/2.1, CSS3, XML, JavaScript,Angular 1.3/1.4/1.5/1.6/2.0/4.0 , React JS, REDUX, JQuery, KnockoutJs, Node.Js, handlebar.js, KendoUI, VBScript, ASP, PHP IDE: Visual Studio 2015/2013/2012/2010/2008. Design Tools and Languages: UML, Visio 2000 for enterprise architects and Rational rose Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports, SSIS, SSRS, Tableau, Qlikview, Telerik Reporting Version control & installation tools: Visual source Safe, Tortoise SVN, MS Team foundation server Other: MS Application Block 4.0, JIRA, SiteCore, Drupal Operating Systems: Windows 8/7/2000/XP/NT/98/95, UNIX Packages: MS-Office Testing Tools: N-Unit PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Philadelphia, PA Lead/Sr. C# .NET Full Stack Developer Responsibilities: Creating native applications for iPhone & Android devices using Swift, Objective C and Java respectively. Creating cross platform mobile solutions in Xamarin.Forms, Xamarin.iOS, Xamarin.Android, using C#, XAML, Model-View-View Model (MVVM), ADO.NET, Repository Pattern wif a Data Access Layer (DAL), and SQLite. Responsible for building Mobile UI using pages, layouts, views for iOS and Android platforms. Building Xamarin.Forms elements for Chronic Disease Management mobile app wif C# using Page, Layout, View classes. Coding the presentation layer usingWPFand MVVM and service layer using Windows Communication foundation technology. Implementing Xamarin page objects including menu pages such as Navigation Page for hierarchical drill down menus, Tabbed Page for tabbed menus, and Master Detail Page for making navigation drawers, Carousel Page for scrolling images, and Content Page for custom layouts. Building Pregnancy & Childbirth mobile app on Android and iOS platforms using Java and Objective C. Implementing In-App Purchases, Push Notifications, and Integrating Rest / SOAP APIs for mobile apps running on iPhone and Android devices. Experience designing and developing Winforms and Webforms. Implemented grid modules in ReactJS combined wif AngularJS for increased performance. Developed React classes in JSX and added event handlers. Developed features for customer facing website using C++,C#,CSHTML, Html Helpers, JavaScript, JQuery, Node JS, Knockout JS, Kendo UI,AJAX, Bootstrap, CSS, LINQ, Entity Framework, SQL Server. Have created and used Winforms to create functionality in networking module. Developed layout pages, complex Controllers, helper methods and View Models. Worked wif XSLT for transforming the XML document to other format, and data change/updates. Developed new user interface components for different modules using Kendo UI wif various controls including Grid controls, and chart controls etc. Developed a web app for the electronic prescribing of providers used by health care staff to search through a database of patient records using C#, ASP.NET MVC 5, and Entity Framework wif LINQ. Developed a Web 3.0 single page application using React, AngularJS for a patient and healthcare provider portal. ENVIRONMENT: Visual Studio 2015, .Net framework 4.5, C#,C++,ASP.NET Web API 2, Angular 4.0/2.0/1.6, Bootstrap, SVN, Karma, Protractor, NUNIT, HTML5, CSS3, XML,Ninject, Sharepoint, Winforms, Telerik Reporting tool Q3 2013/2014 V8/2015 V9, Log4Net, NuGet Packages, Windsor. Confidential, Arlington, VA Senior.Net Developer Responsibilities: Working in Agile Methodologies for rapid development and regular adaption to the varying requirements and continuous delivery of the working software. Designed web application using ASP.NET MVC 5 (Model-View Controller) and AngularJS 1.5 Converted the web sites to web applications to make Azure compatible. Built native iOS and Android applications using Android SDK, IOS SDK inXamarin. Experience on developing windows apps usingXamarinforms Hands on experience in developingXAMARINmobile application and created and updated mobile pages inXAMARIN Forms for cross platform mobile application Extensive experience on MVC frameworks like AngularJSfor creating Single-Page Applications(SPA) using concepts like Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scope, Controllers and Directives. Involved in deploying web applications, websites and console applications to the Microsoft Azure Cloud. Design, develop, and support reports and dashboards using Jaspersoft reporting platform and related tools Used C# inXamarinto create native mobile application. Used dependency injection frameworks likeNinjectand structure map to leverage unit testing Developed new user interface components for different modules using Kendo UI. Extensive usage of Delegates and Events to establish communication between the Winforms. Experience working wif the Kendo UI controls including Grid, Chart, and Editor Components etc. Designing Custom Controls and User Controls using XAML language for interactive UI. Involved in implementation of Object Oriented Concepts during the development. Responsible for UI design wif Angular, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Html5, CSS3. Good experience wif Angular JS directives ng-app, ng-init, ng-model, ng-controller for initialization of Angular JSapplication data. Created middleware component classes across the enterprise and integrated in UI using MVVM pattern. Analyzing, designing and implementing change requests for the C/C++. Involved in writing optimization techniques for more accuracy of Macros in C and C++ routines and Oracle SQL, PL/SQL. Design and model database wifin the NoSQL area to accommodate data solutions wif In-Memory DB Extensive experience in testing NoSQL databases, involved in testing back end jobs using SQL queries. CodedAngularJScontrollers and directives for application functionality and filters for heavy DOM manipulation. Implemented .Net Security features of Authentication and Authorization using .Net Membership. Implemented Testing using Karma,Jasmine, Protractor, and NUNIT. Used Clear Quest and Rational Clear Quest wifTFS Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Views in SQL Server 2012 for accessing the database. Designed interactive ASP.NET MVC 4 Razor views using telerikmvccontrols, asp.net controls, JavaScript, JQuery, KnockoutJS, HTML,Bottstrap,CSS and AJAX to provide excellent user experience. Developed T-SQL queries to fetch data as per the business requirements wif proper tuning techniques. Developed various stored procedures for the data retrieval from the database and generating different types of reports using SQL reporting services (SSRS). Hands on experience in creating reports using Telerik Reporting tool. Created various reports wif more information about our company products. Experience in IIS. ENVIRONMENT: Visual Studio 2013, Jetbrains, .Net framework 4.5, MVC 4.0/5.0, C#,C++, Angular, Bootstrap,Ninject, JQuery, JavaScript, TFS, GIT-HUB, Cassandra, Log4Net, NuGet Packages, Karma, Protractor, Winforms, NUNIT, HTML5, CSS3, Kendo UI, Telerik Reporting Tool 2012/2013, Windsor. Confidential, Pittsburg, PA .NET Developer Responsibilities: Working in Agile Methodologies for rapid development and regular adaption to the varying requirements and continuous delivery of the working software. Working closely to the client for requirement gathering and analysis and provided desired solution to client in time limits. Involved in implementation of Object Oriented Concepts during the development. Involved in deployment of all websites in Microsoft Azure. Experience on Mobile UI and Mobile Website development, using jQuery Mobile, HTML, CSS. Developed windows application/services using C#.Net, WPF, WCF. Designed WPF Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls using XAML language for interactive UI. Visual Studio 2013 and SQL Server 2008. Worked wif a team of developers to analyze project requirements and add functionality to existing C++ applications and SQL databases, such as reading in claims in different formats from different sources, checking for errors, and converting them into a standard format. Created middleware component classes across the enterprise and integrated in UI using MVVM pattern. Migrated the data from an existing MS Access database into an enterprise edition of SQL Server 2008. Developing the application using Win forms,MVC 4.0, Entity Data Model and WCF services. Responsible for UI design and creating contracts and classes in WCF for different modules in the application. Implemented algorithm in C++ to calculate key system variable in MS Excel for Customer Support Department, allowing product release on time. Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for version control and actively involved in developing Project Plans. Experience in building PHP websites and applications using Smarty Tinplating Engine, as well as experience on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture based Web Application Development Systems. Experience on Mobile UI and Mobile Website development, using jQuery Mobile, HTML, CSS. Implemented .Net Security features of Authentication and Authorization using .Net Membership. Implemented .Net classes for Business logic Layer using C# and VB.Net. Implemented Functional Testing using SoapUI and Fitness, nUnit. Database modeling and design (PostgreSQL). Performance tuning and stress-testing of NoSQL database environments in order to ensure acceptable database performance in production mode. Creating Queries and joins on multiple tables, Functions and Triggers using PostgreSQLfor inserting/updating/ deleting the data into the relational tables. Developing various Stored Procedures for the data retrieval from the database and generating different types of reports. Involve in object oriented analysis and design using UML (Unified Modeling Language) such as use case, activity, sequence, class and component diagrams using Visio. ENVIRONMENT: Visual Studio 2010, .Net framework 4, MVC 4.0, C#.Net,C++, ADO.net, GitHub, PostgreSQL, SoapUI, WCF,PHP, HTML, CSS, Crystal Reports. Confidential, New York,NY C# Developer Responsibilities: Developed and supported applications in C# and ASP.NET Developed, enhanced and maintained multi-tier ASP.NET and ASP web applications Systems Implemented multiple contract services and security using the System ServiceModel in WCF. Use of Object Oriented concepts, analysis and design using visual studio.net Responsible for Database design, and creating of Stored Procedures, triggers to perform the Data retrieval from multiple tables in SQL Server 2005 Implementation of low lever requirements using C++ and C. Developed web forms and user controls for the web application in ASP.NET, C# and VB.Net. Designed and developed UI for Intranet applications. Wrote HTML, JavaScript and CSS for application. Implemented validations using built-in validation controls and custom validations controls Using and configuring the IIS application server Developed, deployed and consumed Web Services. Data grid, data list and repeater server controls are used wif ADO.NET to manipulate the data and generate results based on alert types. Environment: C#, C++, C, ASP.NET, CSS, SQL Server 2005, ADO.NET, Visual studio 2005, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DTS. Confidential, Richmond,VA C# .NET Developer Responsibilities: Involved in analysis, design and development of the application. Involved in loading data from XML files to Database. Used data grid to review and modify manipulated data. Used ADO.NET objects consistent access to SQL Server data sources. Developed web pages using C#, ASP.NET and Visual Studio 2008. Used ASP.NET, HTML, to create dynamic web pages using ASP.NET Web Server Controls and user controls. Designed and Developed User Interfaces using ASP.NET. Responsible for designing and developing ASP.NET web pages using ASP.NET, Java script, ADO.NET, SQL, HTML, CSS and AJAX Web services. Developed Custom User Controls to reduce the Complexity in User Interface Coding and provide better look and feel. Coding the designed modules C, C++, multi-threading, data structure and algorithms. Added functionality in business layer and Data access layer. Used ADO.NET in connecting to Data Access management wif SQL Server. Designed and developed complex stored procedures in SQL Server 2008. Designed and developed the C# components for implementing business logic which is used to do the transactions on database in middle tier using ADO.NET. Generated the required reports wif the help of data grid. Developed screens in ASP.NET AJAX-Enabled, C#, ADO.NET to display. Environment: C#, C++,C, ASP.NET, Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2008, HTML, XML, IIS, ADO.NET. 