SUMMARY 8+ years of hands - on and passionate professional experience in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery. Extensive experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) in developing and designing user experiences of Internet/Intranet applications using HTML5, HTML, XHTML, XML CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery Meeting W3C standards and are cross browser compatible. Experience applying the latest software development approaches including MVC, event - driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON and XML. Experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications. Strong HTML5/CSS3 skills wif solid knowledge of usability, accessibility and cross browser issues. Had experience in creating page objects for the developed web pages. Worked on modern browsers like Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, Safari and IE, and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug and Developer Tools. Experience and hands on Object Oriented Analysis, Design and Programming. Developed UI using JQuery and JavaScript Library for Web Application and Mobile Application and extensively developed Rich Internet Applications and various UI widgets using jQuery. Created User Interfaces for Mobile/Tablet/Desktop using HTML5 & CSS3. Excellent skills in relationship management wif clients and effective in guiding team during the project development life cycle and deliver the product wifin time line, cost and quality. Used REST and SOAP web services to communicate wif third party vendors (API Calls). Strong knowledge in cross browser compatibility issues and W3C standards. Used GIT, SVN Version Controls to check-in and check-out the code. Worked in Agile/SCRUM methodology approach for UI Development. TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies: HTML 5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2.0, Angular 4, Angular 5, jQuery, AJAX, D3JS, XHTML, XML, JSON, polymer.js, MVC Design. Languages: Java (J2EE,STRUTS), ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, C, Python. IDE & Editors: Notepad++, Visual Studio Code 2010, Eclipse, NetBeans, Dreamweaver,Brackets, Sublime, Web Storm. Database: SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, MySQL, DB2, MongoDB. UI Frameworks: Angular JS, React JS, Node JS, Express, AEM, Vue.js Other Tools: Adobe Photoshop, Adobe CS, AWS, Gimp, MS Office, Jira, Firebug, Django, Chrome Developers Tool, Docker, Git, Windows Movie Maker, Junit, karma, protractor, jasmine. Operating System: Windows, Mac OS, Linux, Unix. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Seattle, WA  Senior Java UI developer Responsibilities: Working Primarily on the latest version of Technology Angular JS (version 5) for development of the Front End Application Heavily involved in developing the User Interface(UI) from the front end perspective based on the wireframes provided by the design team Communication and delivery of the work done to the Doctors team on the Survey Authoring Tool once in every one week to explain about the work progress done by me and team and the available features in the application based on each week work progress Worked to deliver Phase-1 release on the daily basis of the features promised to the Doctors team Involved in latest Technology stack during Development which includes Angular 5, Spring Boot, Angular material, Jira for bug tracking and work progress on a daily basis Ownership of technical designs, code development, and component test execution to demonstrate alignment to the functional specification. Using configuration management and integration/build automation tools to lead and deploy JavaScript/Java code. Used TsLint for JavaScript errors during development process Applying knowledge of common, relevant architecture frameworks in defining and evaluating application architectures. Deep knowledge of Angular JS practices and commonly used modules based on extensive work experience creating self-contained, reusable and testable modules and components. A deep understanding of web technology stack including extensive experience in Angular JS stack Run tests on the application adding Visual Aria, HTML checker, Lighthouse as extension to check if any errors are present Knowledge of highly interactive web apps (HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS). Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript, Angular 2, Angular 5, Rx JS, Typescript, Agile, Bootstrap4, Node JS. REST API & Web pack, TSLint, Jasmine, Karma, NPM, GIT, JIRA, MAC and Visual Studio. Confidential, Charlotte, NC Senior Java UI developer Responsibilities: Responsible in transforming the wireframes and mockups to develop web pages. Responsive Web design and development, application development using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Stylus and Bootstrap. Using the Bootstrap will be dividing the component’s using the grid layout system. Closely worked wif business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built. Followed Agile Software Development Methodology in the progress of the project Ability to learn quickly and to correctly apply new tools and technology. Worked on the optimization of the CSS files using CSS preprocessors SASS and LESS. Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation using Angular 2 Involved in designing and developing the GUI for the user interface wif various controls. Experience on working wif CSS backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding, Pseudo Classes, Elements and CSS behaviors in CSS. Developed responsive web pages using the Blue UI and Bootstrap grid frameworks which will be halpful for mobile, tablet, Desktop resolutions. Experience wif the features ofAngular2such as directives, modules and routing. Performed a lot ofDOMoperationsfor loading and manipulating dynamic content on webpages. UsedGit Labfor source code control and JIRA for defects tracking. Identifying and fixing the browser performance related issues in the application along wif production deployment and validation support. Worked on scalable environment in Agile/SCRUM methodologies and prepared Test on multiple platforms like Mac and Windows. Environment: HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, CSS, LESS, SASS, BootStrap4, JavaScript, Angular 5, Angular 2, JIRA, GIT, Spring Boot, Visual Studio Code. Confidential, Columbus, OH Java UI developer Responsibilities: Responsible in transforming the wireframes and mockups to develop web pages. The main purpose of the application is to show the latest social media like Glassdoor data, LinkedIn, Facebook and Twitter posts based on company code Integrated the front end wif backend API’s to get the latest social media using Ajax Worked on the existing application which is in JavaScript to halp resolve the bugs and also on the new requirements Extensively worked on the JavaScript application to print the pages which is used to show the reports updated. Used Balsamic mockups tool to create mockups for the UI pages Developed a single page, mobile first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real time utilizing Angular 2,Javascript API Interacted wif the client for gathering requirements for UI in the initial phase of the project Expertise in using Bootstrap and used CSS Media Queries to create Responsive Web Designs (RWD). Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation using Angular 2 Implemented Angular router to enable navigation from one view to the next as user performs application tasks Created reusable templates using Angular directives and worked wif NPM package manager tools(Node JS) and build tools Grunt/Gulp Worked on Responsive web pages (RWD) using Bootstrap, RESTFUL API web development and media queries. Expert inn SDLC, working wif Agile and Waterfall models throughout the project life cycle- using tools like JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and GIT for Version Control. Thorough understanding of CSS and CSS preprocessors(LESS,SASS) principles wif a clear ideology for managing maintainable, scalable and cross - browser code Solid Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions. Used NPM and Bower package managers to install and manage all the required packages. Made use of Gulp task runner to compile sass files to CSS minify files, compress images etc Created Angular components implemented Bootstrapping, Ngfor, Ngif, Router outlet, binding the change event, Component decorator Involved in implementation of MVC pattern using Angular JS, JSF and Spring Controller. Tested the created web services of the web API controllers and actions route using POSTMAN. Built single page application wif loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make dynamic by using Angular 2 framework and Node Js. Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API’s using Component based architecture provided by angular 2. Environment: HTML4/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Tomcat, Apache, Angular Js, Maven, Jenkins, Agile, Spring, Hibernate, Angular js, SQL, Oracle, Jasmine, karma, REST Web services. Confidential Web Developer Responsibilities: Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Created forms for user input. Extensive use of CSS. Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using HTML, XHTML, CSS. Web sites are developed, maintained and run wifin CMS. Successfully wrote and implemented SQL Queries, Stored procedures and Triggers in SQL SERVER. Extracted data in UI for different clients using JSON format. Define technical requirements based upon business requirements. Debugging and testing existing code, JavaScript performance optimization. Worked on Cross Browser Issues for different versions of IE, Mozilla and Chrome. Responsible for the process of UI design for Internet sites Responsible for authoring of website functionality wif JavaScript, HTML, CSS. Used CSS Sprites to decrease the number of HTTP requests and load time of web pages. Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, XHTML, SQL Server. Confidential  Front End Developer Responsibilities: Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON and wif MySQL database. Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 widgets / libraries for complex UI controls. Translating market and product requirements into UI designs in the form of conceptual models, wireframes and prototypes. Designed Rich user Interface Applications using JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5 Developed source code to consume JSON response through XHR/AJAX calls using JQuery. Ajax () calls. Made enhancements to existing CSS and DIV tags using box model. Environment: HTML, XML, XHTML, DHTML, Oracle Database, CSS, Web Standards, DOM, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, Eclipse, SQL,and MS Office. 