SUMMARY Overall 8 years of professional experience in implementing Web, enterprise applications and related academic experience in implementing standalone applications using Java, J2EE, Spring, Web services, JQuery, Java script, HTML/CSS and NoSQL. Experience in Analysis, Design (OOD) and Development of Responsive Web, Service Oriented, Microservices, Event Driven and Cloud Based Enterprise Application. Experience with various Development Methodologies like SDLC, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Agile Software Development Methodology. Strong experience in Oracle 11g and MySQL. Developed Microservices using Spring Boot/ Spring Cloud. Possess strong working knowledge of Database Programming using SQL, PL/SQL and NoSQL. Proficiency in programming with different Java IDE's like IntelliJ and Eclipse Experience with unit testing using Junit and knowledge of Maven, ANT and Log4j tools. Developed portal screens using JSP and Spring MVC framework. Extensive experience in development and implementation of ORM framework Hibernate. Special knowledge in Windows and UNIX environment workspaces. Strong knowledge with development in Agile Methodology, SCRUM using ATG platform. Trained on Amazon Web Services and Pivotal Cloud Foundry. Excellent written and verbal communication skills, presentation and problem solving skills. Good team player and ability to work in fast paced environment. Quick learner with outstanding ability to work under pressure and ability to do multitasking and thrive in a dynamic environment. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating System:  Windows Server 2008, Windows XP/Vista/7/8 and Linux Redhat, Mac, Ubuntu, UNIX Programming Languages:  C, JAVA, Core Java, Java (SDK 1.8 and prior), Microservices, REST based web services, Spring Core, Spring Cloud, Spring Boot, Spring JPA, Hibernate (5.0), Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring IoC, Jenkins, Docker, Openshift, Spring cloud config, JDBC, JSP, MVC Struts, JMS, Tiles, XML, SOAP web services, AngularJS, HTML, Javascript, AJAX, JQuery, CSS. Databases:  Oracle 10g/9i,MySQL Web technologies:  JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, Java Beans, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, AJAX XML technologies:  XML, WSDL,DTD, XSD, JAXB, and JAXP UI Framework/ Tools:  AngularJS, Angular 4, JQuery, JSON, NodeJS, React JS. Testing:  JUnit, Log4j Build tool:  Ant, Maven, Gradle Servers:  Websphere, Weblogic, WAS Liberty Server, Tomcat. System Design and Development:  Requirement gathering and analysis, design, development, testing, delivery (SDLC, Agile, Waterfall model) PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential Java Application Developer Responsibilities: Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach. Experience analyzing, reverse - engineering, and documenting the design of existing Java solutions. Developed Spring Boot/ Spring Cloud Microservices Application with Agile (Scrum) from Requirements to Integration testing. Designed web UI and client side functionalities using AngularJS for single page applications Working in identifying business processes and creating IT solutions that deliver those functions. Extensively performed database testing using selenium. Assessing applications and application architecture· Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation usingAngular4. UsedNodeJSfor writing a proxy service layer using ExpressJS. Strong understanding of Async programming model in NodeJS. Worked on AngularJS to implement UI using SPA (Single Page Application). Working with data Center migration or application modernization. Interacted with client directly for gathering information for various applications and coordinated with offshore team. Migrated Applications from WebSphere Traditional Server to WebSphere Liberty Server. Configured and Deployed Applications on Pivotal Cloud Foundry Involved in Fixing the production Defects for the applications. Environment: IntelliJ IDE, Agile Methodology, Microsoft Excel, Web services (Restful), Windows 8, Angular 4, Gradle,Git Hub, JUnit, Selenium, NodeJS, Jenkins, WebSphere Application Server, WebSphere Liberty Server, Docker,SQL Server, Pivotal Cloud Foundry. Confidential, Farmington Hills, MI Java Developer Responsibilities: Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach. Used Rally for reporting issues. Used Git Hub as a version controlling for the source code check in and check outs. Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using Mockito and used JUnit to run test. Developed Microservices using Restful API. Worked on development of UI Component using Apache Flex and AngularJS. Developed and deployed applications application on JBOSS Application server. Implemented Slf4j to log events. Experience in building event-driven, non-blocking input-output models using NodeJS to create lightweight and efficient real-time applications that run across distributed devices. Created stored procedures using PL/SQL for data modification. Experience in implementing continuous delivery pipeline using Jenkins, OpenShift, Docker and AWS. Developed various JUnit test cases with the help of Mockito to perform unit testing of the code. Involved in Fixing the production Defects for the application. Developing automated process for builds and deployments using Jenkins, Gradle. Environment: IntelliJ IDE, Rally, Agile Methodology, Micro Services, Web services (Restful), AngularJS, JSON, Splunk, Docker, DynamoDB, OpenShift, App Dynamics, JBOSS, Amazon Web Services(AWS), Windows 8, Gradle, Git Hub, JUnit, Mockito, Jenkins, Slf4J. Confidential, San Antonio, TX Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application. Analysis and understanding of business requirements and implement the process using Agile (Scrum) methodology. Used JIRA for reporting issues. Used SVN Tortoise as a version controlling for the source code check in and check outs. Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes. Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance. Developed portal screens using JSP and Spring MVC framework. Used AngularJS and bootstrap as the development frameworks to build a single-page application. Experience in developing Web Services using Restful API and XML. Developed JMS components to send messages from one application to other application internally. Implemented log4j API for exception handling, logging of the errors, warnings, messages, stack traces, debuggers throughout the code. Developing automated process for builds and deployments; Jenkins, Maven, Shell Script. Involved in Writing and reviewing unit test cases using JUnit and Mockito. Write and modify database Stored Procedures, Functions, triggers to interact with oracle. Performed continuous integration build using Jenkins. Environment: IntelliJ, JDK 1.7, Spring framework, Hibernate, JIIRA, Web services (Restful), XML, JMS, JBOSS, Windows 8, Maven, Bootstrap, Sonar, HTML, JUnit, Mockito, Jenkins, Log4J, TortoiseSVN, AJAX, CSS, Eclipse IDE, and Oracle. Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application. Used Agile Approach for the software development. Developed user interface with Servlets and JSP. Also, worked with the PDF and Excel format file download of user data on JSP’s when user wanted to save personal data on JSP page tables. Involved in implementing DAO pattern for database connectivity and used the JDBC API extensively. Designed and developed the UI using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Responsible in creating servlets which routine submittals to appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render, retrieved information. Used multi-threading for performance tuning. Used Eclipse IDE while writing code and CVS for version control Deployed applications on Apache Tomcat application server instances in all the respective environments Deployed and tested the prototype on Apache Tomcat and contributed to deployment and maintenance on Apache Tomcat Server. Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on Apache Tomcat Server Build Scripts using ANT that compiles the code, pre-compiles the JSP’s, built an EAR file and deployed the application on the application server Environment: Java, JDBC, Struts, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, Eclipse IDE, CVS, ANT, Log4J Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Preparation of the Detailed Design document for the project by developing business process flows, requirements definition, use cases, and object model Designed and implemented a GUI framework for Swing. Developers using the framework define actions, popup menus in XML, the framework builds the graphical components. Designed the class diagrams and sequence diagrams. Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework that are written using JSP and client-side validations were done using JavaScript. Use MVC architecture. Creation Test plan. Development and coding of Test classes and Test Cases. Execution of Test cases in Jbuilder. Defect fixing. Client communication & Query resolution Testing of the product: Unit Testing, Regression Testing, and Integration Testing. Used Eclipse as the IDE and Struts Framework for developing the application. Developed the JSPs for the application. Created struts-Config file and resource bundles for Distribution module using Struts Framework. Worked on core java for multithreading Environment: Java, J2SE5.0, Struts, Servlets, JSP, Eclipse, UML, Oracle 8i, XML, HTML/ DHTML. 