SUMMARY Around 7 years of experience in developing and executing complex Java/J2EE applications and design patterns. Experience building web - based client-server technologies and setup configuration to integrate them with front-end applications, back-end web-services, APIs, RDBMS and NoSQL Database Systems. Well experienced in Core Java - asynchronous programming, multithreading, collections and a few design patterns Strong knowledge of J2EE Platform including Servlets, JSP, JMS, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, JPA and Hibernate. Hands on experience in designing n-tier applications using J2EE design patterns including MVC, Business-Delegate, Singleton, Observer and Session-Façade. Experience in JVM related activities like heap dump analysis, garbage collection, caching etc. Experience in SOA integration projects leveraging SOAP/RESTful web services and Spring Framework. Strong knowledge on principles of Microservices and Microservices-Architecture. Experience developing SpringBoot based microservices by leveraging modern CICD tools and deploying in Public-Cloud (AWS). Proficient in building RESTful Service with Java using JAX-RS, Jersey and Spring Boot. Experience in developing front-end web pages/interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, Java script and Ajax. Proficient in developing Single Page Applications using Angular2/4 and ReactJS frameworks. Experience in configuring build and deployment processes using Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, DOCKER and CICD. Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA. Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture. Proficient in using Amazon Web Services including EC2, S3, ELB, Auto-Scaling, VPC, Route53, DNS & IAM. Having exposure in designing and testing custom API using RAML. Knowledge of SOA Design patterns for building middleware systems ground up using Message Routing, Message Filtering, Message Transformation, Batch message processing and error handling. Well versed with Test-Driven-development using JUnit, Mockito for unit-testing and JMeter for load/performance testing. Hands-On experience using SonarJava/SonarLint code analyzer for continuous inspection of code coverage by tests, inspect code quality to detect and fix tricky issues. Extensive experience in deploying enterprise web applications on Tomcat, WebSphere & JBOSS. Proficient in Database technologies including SQL, PLSQL, Stored-Procedures, Joins, Triggers, Cursors, Aggregations and Indexing. Acquainted with Oracle, MySQL and DB2 offerings. Knowledge of using NoSQL (MONGODB, CASSANDRA) data models, Key-Value stores and Document stores for applications demanding large data volumes, low latency and flexible data models. Experience working in all phases of Software-Development-Life-Cycle collaborating with various stake holders including Product Owners, Business Analysts, Software Architects, Quality Analysts, Developers and end users. Quick learner and a team player with excellent troubleshooting, problem-solving and interpersonal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: Java 1.7/1.8, JavaScript, SQL J2EE Technologies: EJB, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, JMS & JDBC Web Application Development: Servlets, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate Front End/Web Technologies: HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, Angular2, ReactJS, CSS, XML, XML Schema, XSLT, XSD, DTD, JSON, YAML Web Services & API development: REST APIs, JAX-RS, JERSEY, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, RAML Database Development: SQL, PLSQL, MySQL, Oracle 11g/12c, MongoDB, Cassandra Application Servers/Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, Oracle WebLogic, JBOSS, WebSphere IDE, Version Control: IntelliJ, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, SVN, Git, GitHub Cloud technologies (AWS): EC2, S3, ELB, Auto-Scaling, VPC, Route53, DNS & IAM Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows, Unix, Linux, MacOS SDLC: Agile, Scrum, Iterated Waterfall PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Atlanta, GA Full Stack Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Analysis, Design, Coding, and testing phases of the back-end server-side business logic development by following Agile Scrum Methodology. Programming and maintenance of software using Java/J2EE, WebLogic Server 12c, Spring Tool Suite, SQL, Oracle 12c, IBM MQ, Microsoft Visual Studio and Unix/Linux scripting. Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection and Inversion of Control (IOC). Developed spring boot applications and microservices and deployed on AWS EC2 instances. Developed RESTful Services with Java using JAX-RS, Jersey and Spring Boot. Coding for consuming the REST APIs, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required formats. Used Spring Framework AOP to implement logging in the application, Spring DAO for data access. Involved in development of REST Web Services using Spring Cloud to extract client related data from databases and used SOAPUI, POSTMAN for testing RESTFUL API web services. Engaged in developing the UI by using HTML, jQuery, Angular2 and JavaScript and used AJAX to make calls to other services. Implement responsive user interface, with a focus on performance. Created modules and web components and coupled them together into a functional app. Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data. Involved in upgradation and maintenance of company's website to the new layout using the Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework. Developed MongoDB architecture to improve performance and scalability. Implemented MongoDB ops manager for alert, monitoring and to restore data. Worked on migrating from Oracle WebLogic Server to Apache Tomcat application server. Tested REST services using google chrome’s POSTMAN plugin. Provided support for troubleshooting and resolving production issues during releases and post releases. Created build and deployment pipelines leverage CICI processes and tools including GIT, DOCKER, Maven and Jenkins Developed JUnit and Mockito tests and provided support to QA team for bug fixes. Participated in code reviews, technical demos and Knowledge Transfer sessions. Collaborated with release management and Site reliability teams for several releases. Worked with AWS Infrastructure teams for configuring security groups and access controls. Environment: JAVA 1.7/1.8, J2EE 6, Spring Framework 4, Spring Boot 1.5, HTML5, CSS, Angular2, XML, XSL, REST, JAX-RS, JUnit, Mockito, Oracle 12c, WebLogic Server 12c, Tomcat, AWS. Confidential, Atlanta, GA Full Stack Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in development of the application using agile development process and participating in daily scrum meetings, Sprint Planning activities, Demos and Retrospectives. The Application was developed using Spring Framework integrated with Hibernate to map to Oracle Database for the Workflow of various modules. Used JDBC 2.0 API, EJB (Session and Message-Driven Beans), JMS, JAVA Beans, JSP, Servlets and J2EE APIs. Strong proficiency with Swing printing and imaging and othe packages of Core Java API Designed and developed various Web forms using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript, React.JS Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept. Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development. Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept. Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords. Implemented React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable). Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components. Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library. Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept. Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid. Utilized JAX-WS for creating the web services and used JAXB for marshalling and un-marshaling of java objects. Developed the functionalities using core java concepts like Generics, Collections & Multi-Threading. Involved in developing front end components using HTML, CSS and JS for client validations. With the concept of ReactJs Worked on usage metrics and also end to end events tracing for analysis purpose. Used various bootstrap components like accordion, date picker, time picker, alert, buttons, modal and also react-bootstrap components. Worked with NoSQL Cassandra to store, retrieve, and update and manage all the details for Ethernet provisioning and customer order tracking. Designed database and created tables, written the complex SQL Queries and stored procedures. Involved extensively in writing SQL and PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Functions. Written unit tests and integration tests using JUnit and also used Mockito to mock the classes and use the results accordingly to tune the unit tests. Used Maven for building the modules, Jenkins for Continuous Integration and JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking, and project management. Developed the Business tier with Stateless and Stateful Session beans with EJB standards. Participated in design review and code review activities of the team and put effort for completing new features, enhancements, and defect fixes Provided support for production support team and involved in resolving production related issues. Environment: JAVA 1.7, J2EE 6,Core Java, EJB 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, SOAP, JAXB, JUnit, Oracle 11g, WebLogic, Unix, Eclipse IDE, Maven, GitHub, React JS. Confidential, Tampa, FL Java / J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis and Design of the application. Created use case diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose. Designed and developed web interfaces using MVC Architecture and Spring Framework. Implemented Spring Framework for dependency injection to inject appropriate class objects depending on the source of the application process. Developed application using Spring MVC and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate. Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core. Used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access. Developed user interfaces using JSP, AJAX, XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Designed the application in such a manner to have code reusability. Extensive client side / server-side validation scripts are written in JavaScript and AJAX. Used SVN as the version controller. Implemented log4j for checking application logs. Involved in Unit and Integration Testing after each development Life cycle. Deployed application in WebSphere application server in pre-production environments. Environment: JAVA 1.7, J2EE 5(Servlets 2.4, JSP 2.0), spring, Hibernate 3.0, Eclipse, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JUnit, WebSphere, SVN, DB2 Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Developed functional and non-functional features of the enterprise applications based on the business needs. Involved in developing proof of concepts, designing the system components, coding and integration testing. Participated in all agile scrum ceremonies, project planning, design discussions and release planning activities. Developed and maintained web services using RESTful API. Used JBOSS Developer Studio for developing the code. Developed DAO layer using Hibernate, JPA, and Spring JDBC. Involved in development of User Interface using JSF, Rich Faces, Prime Faces, HTML/HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, and JSON. Integrated Spring- Hibernate frameworks for ORM functionality in spring framework. Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns such as DAO pattern, MVC pattern, Session Facade, singleton in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing. Designed Java classes using Spring Framework to implement the Model View Control (MVC) architecture. Wrote complex SQL queries and programmed stored procedures, and control files for loading large amounts of data using Oracle 10g. Used Oracle SQL developer for the writing queries or procedures in SQL. Used UNIX scripts for validating data files. Performed Module and Unit Level Testing with JUnit and Log4j. In production support responded to service tickets and service requests within established time-based requirements. Used SVN Repository for Version Control. Used JBOSS 6.0 as the application server. Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE (JSP, Servlets), JMS, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, API, CSS, Bootstrap CSS, JSF 2.0 X, Hibernate, Spring, Linux, XML, XPATH, Shell scripts, Perl Scripts, Oracle 9i, Eclipse, JBOSS. 