SUMMARY: Oracle Certified Java professional offering 6.7 years of experience in working with J2EE applications in Banking and Healthcare. Excellent troubleshooting and analytical skills, self - motivated, self-driven, passionate, responsive, able to work well independently, able to meet deadlines and handle multiple projects and adapts to diverse teams and projects, skilled communicator with exceptional interpersonal skills. TECHNICAL SKILLS: Programming Languages: JAVA/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate Database: Oracle, MySQL, Sybase Build Tool: Ant, Maven, Jenkins Defect Tracking Tools: Jira, Remedy Application Servers: Tomcat, Weblogic Configuration Tools: GIT, Tortoise SVN Other Technologies: Selenium, JMS, Groovy, Velocity, Unix, REST API, SOAPAgile and ITSM Current Interest: Angular, SpringBoot, MongoDB PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Senior Java Automation Developer Confidential  Responsibilities: Developed automation frameworks and tools using JAVA and Selenium for automating all functional and regression testing approaches. Contributed to team meetings with clients and offered input on planning, designs, development, support, and enhancements in an agile environment. Converted 15+ projects to maven to perform SVN to Git Migration Analyzed code and corrected errors and trained team members on how to use automation programs and managed team deliverables. Troubleshooted and resolved web application issues escalated from customer support and other departments with a 100% success rate. Involved in the hiring and recruitment of new engineers Main Technologies and Tools: Core Java, Spring Core, JMS, Velocity, Groovy, WebLogic server, SQL, Jenkins, SOAP UI, REST, XML, JSON, JIRA, SVN, GIT, Eclipse, Unix, Bit Bucket Confidential Senior Developer Responsibilities: Collaborated with clients, project managers, developers, team members, and customers to resolve technical issues. Prepared the Solution and Design docs for the ticket and shared the same with the team for future . Responsible for identifying the root cause, investigate and provide a solution for the escalated and critical production tickets. Created JAVA API Web Services using SOAP UI for centralized credential management system. Cross-trains as back-up for development and maintenance Strong participation in production support and enhancements Main Technologies and Tools: Core Java, JavaScript, SOAP, Servlet, JSP Oracle, SQL, DAP/SWEB server, Eclipse, EJB, Unix, Linux, Service Now Java Developer Confidential  Responsibilities: Mitigated 4 applications free from security attacks by removing the flaws detected using Veracode's scanner without altering their functionality. Interacted with Veracode's Mitigation Team and Application owners, and presented input on security complaints, expected deadlines, designs, and enhancements. Main Technologies and tools: Core Java, JavaScript, Servlet, JSP, Oracle, SQL, SOAP, DAP/DWEB server, UNIX, Linux, Service Now Technical Analyst Confidential Responsibilities: Effectively handled communications between in-house software team, clients, and stakeholders. Developed Controller for the request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC Created, edited, and updated project manuals and technical documentation used by the entire team and clients. Managed to fulfill changes and enhancements for 100+ websites across the APAC region. Reduced website decommission process time by 1/5th by process alignment. Worked as a SPOC for Incident, change, problem management, Alarmpoint/BPPM, etc. Completed Remedy Configuration of all the applications managed by the team and made them process complaint. Maintaining the user data in the database (MySQL) and Extracting the data by structuring.MySQL queries for any ad-hoc reports based on business requirements. Websites made compatible when there is a change in environment or version. Notified the service disruption of MSD Connect across the globe in a timely manner and received appreciation for the same. Main Technologies and tools: HTML, XML, SharePoint 2010, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, MySQL, REMEDY, ITSM, Visual Studio Code 