OBJECTIVE: To obtain a responsible and challenging Front End Developer’s position where Education and work experience will have valuable application. SUMMARY 7 years of experience in web development using HTML, CSS, AJAX, Jquery and other JavaScript frameworks like Angular Js, React/Redux. A Full Stack JavaScript Engineer willing to work in cutting edge technologies, and to Provide Technical expertise in the process of delivering complete business Solutions. Involved in development of multiple Web Apps for high profile clients including Confidential . Extensive experience in performance optimized web apps development using HTML5, CSS3 and Object - oriented JavaScript Technologies. Having in-depth knowledge of developing AngularJS and ReactJS MVC based single page applications. Good exposure to latest cutting-edge technologies like ES6, AngularJS, ReactJS and Typescript. Expert in behavior driven test development using Jest, karma, Jasmine & Enzyme for web apps. Having hands on experience in implementing RESTful web services and standalone server side applications using NodeJS. Highly skilled in mobile apps development using HTML5 mobile frameworks like JQuery Mobile, Bootstrap and RWD. Proficient in building and packaging Web Apps wif libraries such as Gulp, Grunt and Webpack. In-depth knowledge ofdeveloping Single Page Applications (SPA) and solving SPA architectural common drawbacks. Good experience and understanding in AJAX communications and cross domain compatibility issues. Able to create web applications using CSS extension language SASS & LESS. Experience on Agile/Scrum and SDLC methodologies. Liaising wif business stakeholders, project and development teams to better understand the requirements and specifications to improve quality. TECHNICAL SKILLS Web Technologies:  HTML5, CSS3, Object Oriented JavaScript, ReactJS, NodeJS, GulpJS, Jest, Enzyme, Webpack, ECMA Script 6, ECMA Script 5, Type Script, Bootstrap and SASS. Mobile Frameworks:  jQuery Mobile, React Native. Languages:  JavaScript. Version Controls:  GIT, SVN. Application Servers/Build Process:  WebSphere, Jenkins. Platforms:  Windows, Mac. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Phoenix Software developer Responsibilities: Design and develop a powerful and modern frontend architecture using React, Redux, ECMAScript (ES5/ES6). Develop re-usable smart components using REST and Redux for backend calls where data need to load automatically in the UI Develop Enterprise level responsive web pages or applications and implement web accessibility for webpages, implement object-oriented designs Develop highly optimized event-based model between the web components Analyze, test and implement PIXEL PERFECT UI to give better user experience Develop web components using React JS such as Calendar, dropdowns, radio, checkbox, Search bar, alert-icon and utilize internal CSS library for Responsive web design. Implement web pack configurations to bundle the code load CSS using CSS3 which would work in any device such as mobile, tablet, desktop etc. Ensure code quality wif various tools such as ESLint for static code analysis, Use Jest(Enzyme) for writing unit tests, follow and apply design patterns for delivering quality code. Implement (CI/CD) Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment using Jenkins. Code Review to deliver quality code and deploy in Confidential servers using Jenkins for Continuous Integration. Provide 24/7 support for production systems integrated wif Confidential Main framework. Analyze data flows from backend to front end on mock data. Adhere to security rules provide by Confidential rules document and implemented high quality experience Technical Point of contact for developers and trouble shoot technical challenges Environment: ReactJS, ReduxHTML5, CSS3, Object Oriented JavaScript, Jest, Enzyme, and Jenkins. Confidential, Sunnyvale CA UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in Requirement gathering and Analysis discussions. Creating and implementing Architecture and UI designs. Understand Business and analyze, convert into code. Collaborated wif Product Managers Designers, Developers, Program Managers and Testers. Created mock data when back end is not ready. Developed Custom CSS to create Pixel Perfect UI. Designed responsive UI to work on cross browser and multi devices. Experienced on create and customize Directives, Templates in Angular.js Experienced on create and custom services. Used filters while coding in Angular JS. Used REST services for getting data. Written Test cases for entire application. Used Jenkins for Continuous integration and involved in fixing build and Cross Origin issues. Involved inbug fixingand assistedQAteamin navigating through the pages. Involved in Code review to deliver quality code. Done Integration’s whenever required. Integrated our application wif all gateways (Payment, PWN, USPS (for shipping)). Environment: AngularJs, JQuery HTML5, CSS3, Webpack, Grunt, Jenkins, GitLab, NodeJsPhp-Magento. Confidential, Fremont CA UI Developer Responsibilities: Involved in all the software phases from Analysis to Testing and documented all the changes done to the application. Followed Agile methodology. Involved in attending a meeting wif clients to get knowledge transition. Developed screen prototypes using HTML. Developed Use Case document explaining new and modified use cases and their behaviors. Developed Functional Specification document describing new screens and changes in the existing screens and their navigation details. Prepared JSON data according to question and mocked. Migrated all existing Codebat questions to Javascript. Design, develop, test and support cross-browser & cross-device (phones / tablets / connected devices / other mediums) high-quality, high-performance, beautiful, interaction rich, maintainable front-end products throughout all phases of the development cycle. Developed unit test cases for the modules involved. Involved in Code Review. Environment: Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Spring Framework, JDBC, Web services, JMS, JavaScript, HTMLS, CSS3, jQuery (or similar JS libraries), AngularJS, ReacjJS, vueJS, AJAX, RWD. Confidential Software Engineer Responsibilities: Worked extensively on JavaScript Libs to enforce client-side validations Responsible for creating text based Search engine using JSP, Servlets, Html, CSS, JavaScript, XML, XSL Designed and developed the system for managing the Content using XML. Involved in the design and coding part for the application using Java, Struts, JSP and Hibernate. UI Development using JavaScript, DHTML & AJAX. Using advanced level of HTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Develop, implement, and maintain an MVC architecture utilizing Struts framework for large enterprise software tool Developed front end using XHTML, CSS, JSP, CSS and JavaScript Created a template system in XML and XSLT and utilized Java to generate JSP (Java Server Pages) comprising the user interface of the website Environment: Action Script 3.0, MXML, Java 1.6/J2EE, SQL Server, web logic 11, Flash Builder 4.5, Eclipse 3.6, ANT 1.8, SVN Tortoise, HTML, Clear Case, TOAD, Exceed 