OBJECTIVE: Seeking a challenging position, where me will be a valuable team member, contributing quality ideas and work for an organization where their is an ample scope to grow for an individual as well as organization growth in Software Development. SUMMARY 7 years of experience in JAVA/J2EE Technologies Design, Development, Integration and Maintenance of Enterprise Applications. Expertise in AGILE Software Development Environment using agile method SCRUM. Advanced Knowledge on Frameworks like Hibernate, spring and Struts and developed web applications using these technologies. Expertise on creating and consuming Web services using SOAP, REST, SWAGGER, and ODATA. Extensively worked on XML, JSON,YAML and Apache James Mail Server. Experience with Log4J Logging API and Ant and Maven Build Tools. Experience with version control tools like SVN, CVS. Working experience in UNIX shell scripting. Strong experience with MVC based frameworks such as Struts, spring and Hibernate. Experience with using JUNIT test cases written with Power - Mockito for building, testing teh Application. Experience with Apache Kafka distributed streaming platform and Netflix Hystrix a Latency & Fault Tolerance for Distributed Systems. Professional experience in design and development of web, client-server, and standalone applications. Experience in developing and deploying applications with JBOSS, Jetty and Apache Tomcat servers. Demonstrated ability to work through a problem effectively and provide a solution. Always ready to take up additional responsibilities in project. Quick learner with ability to work in fast-paced environment. Performed Back end Testing-using SQL queries, generating reports to ensure data integrity and validate teh inserted and updated data. Experience in managing AWS VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) environment with around 200+ Linux and Ubuntu instances. Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 buckets and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket Excelled on creating AMI (AWS Machine Images) that utilizes ELB (Elastic Load Balancer) and Auto Scaling. Used teh AWS-CLI to suspend an AWS Lambda function. Used AWS CLI to automate backups of ephemeral data-stores to S3 buckets, EBS. Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Maintenance and Enhancements Proficient in reengineering teh process and improving it to make teh business effective and efficient. Has also involved and contributed a lot in converting teh requirements into effective business design. Has excellent written and communication skills in English. TECHNICAL SKILLS Operating Systems: Mac OS, Windows, Unix/Linux Languages: Java 1.6,1.7,1.8, OOPS concepts,J2EE Framework: Spring, Struts, Hibernate, JPA, Web services (SOAP and REST), Spring MVC Databases/ File Systems: Oracle, DB2, Geneva, MySql, Ms Sql Web Technologies: HTML, Java Script, JSTL, J-Query, XML, YAML Application/Web Servers: JBOSS, Jetty, Web Sphere, Tomcat Version Control: SVN, CVS, Git Labs Build & Log Tools: Ant, Maven, Log4J Testing API: JUNIT, Power-Mockito Other Tool’s: Eclipse, Intellij, Apache James Server, Jira PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Palo Alto, CA Java Developer Responsibilities: Implemented Core Java (API, Multi-Threading, Collections). Used Agile Methodology and Scrum Implementing Continuous Integration principals and practises for teh Billing Development Team using Jenkins Implementation of MongoDB security with various Autantications Worked closely with Business partners to develop business functions required to onboard clients. Involved in teh implementation of Batch processing. Multi-threading and distributed systems Expert in Java technologies / J2SE Involved in teh analysis, design and implementation and testing phases of SDLC. Created JUNIT TestCases, TestSuites using JUnit for Java Service Layer which was developed using Spring, Persistence layer using Hibernate. Assisted in supporting and updating Unix control programs. Experienced with AWS data backup (snapshot, AMI creation) techniques, along with data-at-rest security within AWS Assisted in analyzing incoming equipment and developing teh necessary control applications in Linux and Unix. Worked extensively on Spring boot for building web service Developed and implemented teh MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework Implemented an Integration Application service based application built on top of teh Confidential Service Bus(HPSB) Collaborated with teh production support team in identifying and resolving production issues. UsedMaven build toolto achieve more functionality for build process. Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues in teh QA phase by verifying server logs. Responsible to prepare teh Low Level design document and creating teh reusable components for across teh application. Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like MVC, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator Installed and configured MySQL on Linux and Windows environments. Developed PL SQL queries and stored procedures to update teh database and used JDBC to connect to teh database. Confidential Module Lead/Java Developer Responsibilities: Tune and manage teh performance of all teh production database instances. Developed Spring Hibernate components for backend data retrieval and persistence. Managed trouble shooting teh performance issues on teh application backed & databases. Maven build toolto achieve more functionality for build process. Developed stored procedures and triggers etc. Implemented Restful web services using spring boot Effectively configured MySQL Replication as part of HA solution. Responsible for developing JUnit TestCase Classes, Test Suite in Integration environment. Designing and developing user interfaces using JSPs, Ajax and JQuery. Provided training and leadership to other team members Defined and modified database tables to support software changes. Wrote database queries on Oracle9i. Developed JSF components to use similar features in multiple pages. Confidential J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Coded 2 websites using spring, Struts, Hibernate, JPA, Jquery, Html, JSTL, and JSP. Deployment Experience with OC4J application Server and Web sphere application server. Worked extensively on build and deployment tools like ANT and version control CVS. And logging api like Log4J. Understanding teh flow specifications and responsible for teh development of teh Application which is totally based on Framework2. Analysis of teh specifications provided by teh clients Drafted comprehensive reports to document bugs and design flaws. Used Oracle and DB2 databases for application development. Worked closely with clients to establish problem specifications and system designs. Confidential Software Engineer Responsibilities: Requirement analysis. Coding as per teh user requirements. Involved in development of 2 computer software web applications using Java J2EE technologies. Collaborated with product management to design, build and test cases.