SUMMARY 6 years of experience as a Java Full stack developer and J2EE Developer in full software development life cycle including requirement analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintenance. Extensive experience in developing JAVA based applications using JAVA, JEE, JDBC, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS and Web services. Extensive experience in developing Web interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular - JS and Backbone-JS. Experience in implementing Java/J2EE technologies for application development in various layers of projects me.e. requirement gathering, analysis, design, implementation, Unit testing and deployment from UAT to Prod. Proficient working on Java Frameworks like Struts 2.x, Hibernate 3.x, JSF, and Spring Framework 4.x. Experience in developing Full stack applications using Angular-JS, Node-JS, Mongo-dB, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Java, EXT-JS, JSF etc. Experience in designing and development enterprise applications using java, jsp, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, RMI, EJB, JavaScript, XML, REST Web services, JMS, Java Mail, WSDL, SOAP 1.1, Hibernate Hands on experience in various agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM, and Pair Programming. Strong knowledge on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services like EC2, S3, EBS, RDS, VPC, and IAM. Experience in working wif Web/Application Servers like Web logic, JBoss and Tomcat Servers and databases such as Oracle 10g/11g, SQL Server 6.5/7.0. Experienced in developing Micro services wif Spring Boot, Spring REST, Spring Cloud, Eureka, API-Gateway etc. Expertise in implementing client-server business applications using Micro services. Experienced in other front-end technologies such as SASS, LESS, Typescript, BOOTSTRAP, Angular1, Angular1.5, Angular2, Angular 4, Ajax, JSON, Node.js etc. Hands on experience wif Core Java wif multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics, Data structures and Collections, Garbage Collection Experience in working wif J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, Java Beans, JMS, Object-Oriented (OOP) and Client & Server-side technologies. Created several components such as controllers, services and repositories to enhance shopping cart Features for Core API project. (Using REST API, JSON, Advanced REST Client, Eclipse PDT, Git). Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) implementing Waterfall, V-Model, & Agile methodologies. Good understanding of NoSQL Database and hands on work experience in writing application on No SQL database which is Mongo DB. Experience in developing Stored Procedures, functions, triggers using Oracle and comfortable using databases SQL Server, DB2, MySQL and MS Access. Experience in working wif Version Control Tools like Rational Team Concert, Harvest, Clear case, SVN, and Git-hub Extensive experience in design and development of J2EE applications using Core Java, Java Collections, Data Structures, Multithreading, Transaction Management, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, XML, Web Services and other open source frameworks and APIs. Involved as Developer and throughout life cycle of the projects. Implemented triggers, Visual Force. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: C++, Java 1.8, J2EE Operating Systems: Linux, UNIX, Windows and Mac Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, AJAX, JSON, XML, XSLT, JSP, JSF, EJB, XHTML, ReactJS, and other Custom Tag Libraries. Methodologies: OOAD, Agile scrum, waterfall model. Database: SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i/10/11g, MySQL, DB2. Development tools: GitHub, CVS, SVN/Subversion, PVCS. Debugger Tools: Firebug, Browserify, Bugzilla and Internet Explorer. IDE's: Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, Intellij, RAD, Notepad++, Brackets and Edit Plus. Web Services: Tomcat, SOAP and REST. Testing Tools: Jasmine, JUnit, Karma, Protractor. Cloud Technologies: AWS EC2, Docker Container, Kubernetes. DevOps Skillset: Jenkins, Maven, Fortify, Sonar, CI-CD automation, Artifactory, Urban Code PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential | Beaverton, Oregon Java Full Stack Engineer Responsibilities: Analyzed the business requirements of the project by studying the Business Requirement Specification document. Worked wif Data Governance, Data quality, Data architect to design various models and processes. Used a Microservice architecture, designed and developed RESTFUL web services using Spring Boot framework. Deployed Spring Boot based microservices Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services. Worked on Angular 4 Templates, directives, Routing and navigation, Components, Services, Pipes and Data Binding. Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, filters, factory and service resources, routings and events. Integrated Node.js wif Hapi.js and communicated wif Mongo dB for CRUD operations on the data repository. The back-end use of Node.js, Hapi.js, MongoDB and Mongoose the complete MERN Stack to provide RESTful API. Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from Node Package Manager (NPM) and Flux library. Developed dynamic and responsive web pages to user interface screens using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. Created reusable components and used across various modules using Angular 4 custom libraries. Used Apache POI for uploading Excel files and optimized the load time by extensively leveraging Java8 lambda expressions, streams and parallel streams. Worked on Modularization of the JDK under Project Jigsaw on Java 8. Worked on Java Dependency Analysis Tool (jdeps) on Java 8. Worked in using React JS Components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept. Enhanced the customer search experience by developing searchable components wif Splunk. Performed CRUD operations like Create, Update, Insert and Delete data in Mongo db. Worked on Mongo dB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication and schema design. Configured mongo-connector to create a pipeline from the MongoDB cluster to keep synchronize wif the multiple sources like Elastic Search or another MongoDB cluster. Used Docker Engine and Docker Machine environment, to deploy the micro services-oriented environments for scalable application. Deployed the Docker image of services building Docker file and build a continuous delivery pipeline for containers using AWS Code and Amazon ECS. Designed and deployed a multitude application utilizing almost all the AWS stack which Includes EC2, MongoDB, Docker, Kubernetes Orchestration container focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling. Worked on AWS Cloud Front, S3 and Lambda Web Services to integrate the server side and client-side code. Configured AWS EC2 instances, domain mapping via Route53. Worked wif app developers during API development, to implement a secure server by using OAuth2 between server and client applications. Used Maven and Jenkins to automate the construct and convey process and SVN was utilized for project administration and version management. Creating customized business reports and sharing insights to the management. Scheduled workflow runs and halped the support team in analysis of the job failure and provided the relevant solution. Environment: Java, AWS EC2, Docker, Spring Boot, Spring Web MVC, Spring REST, Spring JPA, Spring Batch, UML, XML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, XSL, Oracle, SQL Developer, jQuery, JUnit, REST, Angular 4, AngularJS, Flux, Hibernate, Mongo DB, AWS ECS, EC2, ES6, Maven, Jenkins. Confidential | Dallas, Texas Java Full Stack Developer Responsibilities: Designed and developed applications using Agile Methodology. Involved in all phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) including Requirements Collection, Analysis, Development and Customization of the Application through Agile TDD methodology. Extensively used Core Java API, Spring API in developing the business logic. Designed and Developed Representational state transfer (REST) based services and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based services as part of the requirement. Designed and developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, XML and XSLT. Developed applications using Angular 2 single page applications SPAs to improve page performance. Used XML and JSON for transferring/retrieving data between different Applications. Developed reusable components using Custom Directives in AngularJS. Used Angular 2 framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating wif Restful services. Using Spring Boot for dependency injection and batch processing. Implemented Microservices for loose coupling and granularity of application. Used JavaScript, AngularJS, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls. Implemented DAO layer using JPA (Hibernate framework) to interact wif Oracle 11g database. Extensively used the J2EE design patterns like Session Facade, Business Object (BO), Service Locator, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton, Factory. Configured and deployed the application using Tomcat and Web Sphere. Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component projects and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration. Design, investigation and implementation of public facing websites on Amazon Web Services (AWS). Utilized Agile Scrum Methodology wif JIRA to manage project and participated in daily stand up meetings. Developed UNIT test cases using JUnit and Mockito and configured them through Maven surefire plugins to be part of continuous integration. Used Log4j along wif Splunk for logging error/debug messages and managing them. Used SVN for Version Control tool and Clear Quest for bug tracking tool. Environment: Java, PL/SQL Spring API, Spring Boot, Microservices JSON, XML, JSP, JavaScript, AWS, JIRA, RESTful service, SOAP, JPA, AJAX, Maven, Jenkins, Log4j, SVN, JUnit, Mockito, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS. Confidential | Killington, Vermont J2EE Engineer Responsibilities: Involved in various phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC), analysis, modeling, developing code & testing Developed RESTFUL web services and Microservices using Spring Boot and Spring MVC. Consumed various REST webservices Implemented persistence layer using hibernate and worked on creating Spring Data Repositories for SQL database Implemented the feature for the Admins to create and manage events at the global level. Fixed issues wif email RSVP not saving in DB, sending event invites to multiple non-members, chapter not displayed for selection. Used spring framework to handle business logic. Used Jackson API's Object Mapper to map Java objects to json. Used criteria API to implement criteria queries dat return instances of persistence objects. Used Log4J to capture the logs dat includes application logs, system logs and performance logs. Used PUTTY to login to Linux servers to check logs. Used Git commands to push, pull, merge the branches. Used Rally to groom user stories, list tasks, provide estimates and track defects. Self-starter, fast learner and a team player wif good communication and personal skills. Worked in Agile model and familiar wif all the ceremonies - Sprint planning meetings, Daily Standups, Sprint. Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Microservices, RESTFUL web services, Oracle 12, Postman, Rally, Git, Bit bucket Confidential | Merrimack, New Hampshire Junior Software Developer Responsibilities: Involved in SDLC phase of requirement analysis, design and development of the web-based intranet application tool using Java, spring, Spring Batch and Hibernate. Used Struts validator framework to automatically validate user input. Develop, implement and maintain a synchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience. Used J2EE design patterns like DAO, Value Object, Service Locator, MVC and Business Delegate. Developed/Customized Java Server Pages (JSP) for Customer User Interface (UI). Developed web tier using Struts tag libraries, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML, JSP, and Servlet. Developed JSP custom tag libraries. Involved in writing test cases using JUnit. Developed the database tier using JDBC. Used SVN tools for version control. Involved in production support, monitoring server and error logs. Environment: Java 1.5, Struts, Spring, Spring Batch Production Support, Hibernate, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle 9i, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, SVN, JSP, HTML, WebSphere, Apache Axis, Agile Scrum, JUnit 4.2, Design patterns, Web Services. 