SUMMARY 7 years of extensive experience in Development, Implementation of multi - tier server centric Object oriented applications using J2EE technologies. Extensive experience in implementing and maintaining large content driven and banking domain based JAVA applications. Strong Experience in Java/J2EE, Struts, Spring, Java Mail, Web services (JAXWS AND RESTFULL), Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Maven, Log4j, Junit, JNDI, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, Sybase. Experienced of application/web servers including Apache Tomcat, JBOSS and WebSphere. Worked using several J2EE design patterns like Factory Pattern, Front Controller, Service Locator and DAO. Extensive experience in design, development and implementation of Model- View - Controller using Struts, Spring, ORM (Object-relational Mapping) Frameworks - Hibernate. Experience on Front End Technologies: AJAX, JSTL, JSP, HTML and CSS. Knowledgeable of build and deploy systems like Maven, Jenkins, Clear Case, SVN, GIT and MKS Integrity. Experienced in working wif Business team and documented Functional design specifications. Trouble-shooting and tenacious problem solving skills. Experienced in scripting languages: JavaScript, JQuery. Hands on experience wif databases like Oracle and DB2. Extensive experience on Agile and WaterFall methodologies. Strong communication & relationship management skills, enthusiastic & self-driven, wif a high degree of commitment. Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Extensive experience in IDEs such as Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD. Strong background in supporting production environments and meeting customer needs. TECHNICAL SKILLS Languages: Java/J2EE, C, C++, SQL. Internet Tech: Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Struts, Web Services, Java Beans, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, Hibernate, Velocity Databases & ORM: Oracle (PL/SQL, SQL* PLUS), Hibernate, JDBC. (Database separate and ORM Separate) Frameworks: Hibernate Web Application Frameworks: Struts, Spring, JSF. Operating Systems: Windows Linux, MS-DOS IDE Tools: Rational Application Developer7.0, Eclipse Servers: WebSphere Server 7.0, JBoss 5.1, Tomcat 7.0, Virgo - Jetty server, Asterisk, Server (IVR Communication) Version Control: Clear Case, RTC (Rational Team Concert), MKS, SVN, GIT. Testing Tools: Junit. Build Tools: Maven, Ant. Deploying tools: Jenkins Code Coverage: Sonar. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, Parsippany, NJ Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the end to end Development of Projects covering all phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Designing, Build/Construction, Unit/Assembly Testing and Deployment. Created user interface and performed multiple formatting using JSP, HTML and CSS. Performed validation utilities using JavaScript and AJAX. Developed business logic using Core java and Spring MVC for processing the front-end request and to fetch the data from the Service Layer. Application integration wif Spring and Web Services to fetch data from Service Layer developed using SOA architecture, configuring WSDL based on SOAP specifications. Designed and coded JAX-WS based Web Services used to send or retrieve data from different applications. Developed internal applications using WebLogic Portals. Working on Oracle11g database to store data and for querying purposes. Deployed and configured the data source for database in WebLogic application server Developed the application using Eclipse Used Maven for the build process. Environment: JDK 1.6, J2EE, Agile Development Process, Core Java, Spring MVC, Web Services, Hibernate, Log4j, JSP, Servlets, WebLogic, Oracle, Windows XP, HTML, XML, Maven, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, JUnit, SVN. Confidential, Basking Ridge, NJ Java Developer Responsibilities: Responsible for requirement gathering analysis and documentation. Responsible for coding the business logic using Spring MVC. Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging, security and transaction management. Designed the data layer using a combination of SOAP, Restful web services and occasionally Hibernate ORM. Worked on User interface system using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JSON. Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server. Involved in implementing validations, exception handling. Worked wif XML, XSLT for building up & transforming the xml files. Used IBM MQ and IBM Broker is used for transferring the data across multiple applications. Used log4j for logging the debug and info logs. Used Maven tool for building and packaging the application. Used DB2 as backend database and developed business logic using Core java and Spring MVC for processing the front-end request and to fetch the data from database Debugged, tested and documented code fixes for production issues working wif both on shore and offshore resources. Implemented SVN configuration management tool for code versioning and release. Involved in assisting the operations support team in deploying code to the production servers. Used PUTTY for UNIX login and to check the server logs. Environment: J2EE 6, IBM RAD, JSP 2.1, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, Servlets, DB2 Server, JavaScript, jQuery, Maven, Log4j, J Unit 3.7, REST, SOAP, WebSphere, HTML, CSS. Confidential, Columbus, OH Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the review and analysis of the Functional Specifications, and Requirements Clarification Defects etc. Involved in the analysis and design of the initiatives using Rapid Application Development. Design UI screens using JSP, CSS, Struts Framework, AJAX,JavaScript and HTML. Implemented MVC architecture by using Struts to send and receive the data from front-end to business layer. Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server. Involved in CoreJavacoding by usingJavaAPIs such as Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling, andJavaI/O to fulfil the implementation of business logic. JUnit was used for unit testing and implementing Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology. Implemented Web Services to send or retrieve data from different applications using SOAP and Restful. Implementation of Spring Restful web services which produces JSON. Used Commons Logging framework (log4j) utility to log error, info and debug messages. Coded Maven build scripts to build and deploy the application on WebSphere. Performed Unit Testing and interacted wif QA for testing. Used Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC), and integrated Spring MVC and Hibernate. Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the MySQL database. Used Agile methodology for the software development process. Used CVS as source control Environment: Java, Struts, Spring, WebSphere, RAD, HTML, JavaScript, JDBC, Hibernate, JDBC Template, SOAP, Restful, XML, XSD, XSLT, Servlets, JSP, MySQL, Log 4j, JUnit, Agile, Windows, CVS, Maven. Confidential Java/J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Study and analyse the business process flow and existing system. Created user interface and performed multiple formatting using JSP, HTML and CSS. Performed validation utilities using JavaScript and AJAX. Developed Servlets, Session and Entity Beans handling business logic and data. Integrated the application wif Spring and provided abstraction between presentation layer and persistence layer. Managed connectivity using JDBC for querying/inserting & data management including triggers and stored procedures. Created Java Beans for transactions between JSP pages and EJBs. Written SQL Queries to interact wif MySQL database. Used SVN for version control across common source code used by developers. Deployed and configured the data source for database in WebLogic application server Used Maven for the build process. Used Log4j for logging and JUnit for unit testing. Environment: Core Java, JSP, Servlets, EJB, WebLogic Application Server, MySQL, SVN, My Eclipse IDE, HTML, JSP. Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Identified the Business Requirements of the project. Involved in preparing the Detailed Design document for the project. Developed UI using JSP, Tiles, Java Script and CSS. Created tile definitions, struts-config files, and validation files for the application using Struts framework. Created XML formatted output files. Did requirement analysis, design, coding, implementation and Maintenance of dis application follow the complete SDLC lifecycle along wif Team lead. Did core Java coding use JDK 1.3, Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE). Did coding of following modules Implemented Action Classes and Action Forms using Struts framework. Used JDBC to connect to the database. Involved in Unit testing, System Testing and writing test cases. Design Database tables. Wrote SQL queries and stored procedures MySQL Server administration. Used IBM Clear Case as version control and workspace management. Used ANT as the build tool Apache Tomcat server administration Environment: Core Java, JSP, Struts 1.1, Eclipse, JDBC, J2EE, Apache Tomcat 5, HTML, JavaScript, MySQL Clear Case, Ant. 