SUMMARY 6+ years of experience in design, development experience with Java, J2EE and Spring Frameworks, MVC Frameworks. Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) implementing Waterfall, V - Model, and Agile, Iteration, Scrum methodologies. Expertise in developing GUI using Web-Development technologies like DHTML, DOJO, HTML5, Angular JS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, JSF and jQuery. Design and Implemented highly efficient and rich UI components using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Experienced in working with various JavaScript frameworks and libraries such as Angular JS, ReactJS, jQuery and NodeJS. Experienced in implementing Flux and Redux architecture with React JS development and good hands on experience in unit testing using Jasmine, Karma, Mocha, Chai and end to end testing using and Protractor. Experienced in working with various JavaScript build tools such as Gulp, Grunt and Webpack to build and package the UI code and have experience developing code with ES6. Extensive working knowledge in UNIX, LINUX and Windows platforms. Experienced in developing REST API using Node-JS, Express-JS, Hapi-JS and MongoDB and performing unit testing for REST API’s and creating documentation using Swagger. Experienced in developing solutions using various design patterns such as Singleton, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Factory, Proxy, DAO, DTO and Template patterns. Expertise in utility tools like ANT, Log4j, JUNIT and Maven. Strong knowledge inMongoDBconcepts - CRUD operations and aggregation framework, Indexing and Sharding. Expertise XML technologies like DTD, XSD, XSLT and various parsers like DOM, SAX and JAXB. Domain knowledge in Technology, Financial, Banking, Insurance and Healthcare industries. Developed applications with Spring using different modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, DI, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Integration, Spring Testing and Spring JDBC. Experienced in developing and consuming REST API’s using Spring MVC, Jersey and Apache CXF and took part in marshalling and un-marshalling JSON and XML. Experienced in developing and consuming SOAP web services using Java, Spring and Apache CXF. Experienced in working with various MVC technologies such as JSF, Spring and Struts and have experience developing batch jobs using Spring Batch. Strong programming skills performing Java EE development using JSP, Servlets, EJB, JSF, JAAS JMS, JAXB, JAXP, JAXRS and JAXWS Knowledge on writing the Design Specifications for the generic and application specific web services in Groovy on Grails. Hands on experience in working on XML Suite of technologies (XML, XSD, DTD, XML Schema, DOM). Experienced in working with various development IDE’s such as Eclipse, STS, Brackets, Atom, Visual studio code. Worked with micros on oracle retail XStore version 6.0 POS and Xstore tools. Experienced in performing SQL/ PL-SQL programming with various RDBMS systems such as Oracle, MySQL and DB2 Extensively worked with multiple development tools like RAD 6.0/7.0, MyEclipse5.x, Net Beans, JBoss Developer Studio and Database tools like ERWIN, SQL Developer and TOAD, Source control tools like VSS, TFS, NWDI, and MKS. Experienced in performing deployments to application servers such as Web Sphere Server, Web logic, JBoss & Tomcat server. Expertise using version control tools like CVS, SVN, GIT and Rational Clear Case and performing unit testing using Junit, TestNg and mocking frameworks such as Mockito. Expertise in setting up builds and deployments using Maven, Ant, Gradle and performing CI/CD deployments using Jenkins Experienced developing Test plans, Test Cases (Manual/Automated), Test Procedures and performing white-box and black-box testing. Expertise in developing automating test cases withSelenium,Java, Cucumber, for web applications on both mobile and desktop. Extensive experience in build, release and configuration management process. Proficient at grasping new technical concepts quickly and utilize the same in a productive manner. Expertise in leading small teams and able to work independently as well as in a team to satisfy the needs of the clients and worked as an Offshore - Onsite Coordinator. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Languages: Core Java, OOP, Java, J2EE, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, XSLT, AJAX, jQuery, DHTML, XHTML, SQL, PL/SQL, Shell Scripting, Scala, DOS Batch Scripting Operating Systems: UNIX, Windows, LINUX, Mac Enterprise Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSF, Custom Tag Libraries, JNDI, Strut2.0, Hibernate, Spring 3.x, RESTful services, Web services, EJB, I Log JRules 6.5, Log4J, SLF4J Application Server: WebLogic 10x/8x, IBM WebSphere 7.x/6.x/5.x, ATG Dynamo and Apache Tomcat 6.x/5.x Web technologies: JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JavaScript, Web Services (JAX-WS), SOAP, REST, jQuery, dojo, XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Angular JS, Bootstrap JS, Ajax. Designing Patterns: Session Façade, Business Delegate, Front Controller, Service Locator, Singleton, Observer, DTO, DAO, MVC, Iterate, Factory, Abstract Factory Data Modeling: UML Class, Entity-Relationship and Use Case Diagrams. Databases: Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, Sybase, PL/SQL, MongoDB Tools: Java IDE: Toad, SoapUI, Ant, Maven, Grade Eclipse, NetBeans, JBoss Developer Studio IDE: IBM RAD 7.5.0, Oracle Workshop 10.x, Eclipse 3.x Version Control: SVN, Rational Clear Case, CVS, GIT PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Confidential, Newyork, NY Responsibilities: Developing the application using Java/J2EE platform. Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure using Spring framework. Used JSP, HTML, and CSS for content layout and presentation. Used jQuery for UI and AJAX for reports display Driven the modernization and product development and lifecycle, towards a modular, cloud ready and MicroServices driven architecture that can power hybrid ECM solution deployments. Used micros on oracle retail XStore version 6.0 POS for the handling of cardholder data during the authorization and settlement processes, allowing developers to achieve an ‘Out of Scope’ solution for this POS application. Have developed the tender like cash, EMV and gift card payment tenders according to the customer requirement Configured taxes and discounts on various merchandise using XStore tools and pricing strategy. Migrating existing application into micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot, Spring Cloud config (eureka, zuul, hystrix) and AWS. Delivered a solution that substantially reduces PCI scope and offers the merchant the option of a pre-certified payment solution with EFTLink from MICROS. New library development with micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot and pivotal cloud fundry. Used Axis to implementing Web Services for integration of different systems. Created the web application using MVC pattern to manage runtime content, in the form of POIs. Experienced in using Scala, Java tools like Intelli J, Eclipse. Used slick to query and storing in database in a Scala fashion using the powerful Scala collection framework. Used Web Services to extract customer related product data from machines and servers using WSDL, XML, SOAP using Service Oriented Architecture. Implemented the functionality of fetching of data from different sources and persisted the data through Hibernate, to separate DAO layer from Database layer and using corejavaclasses. Cognitive about designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS). Extensively worked usingAWSservices along with wide and in depth understanding of each one of them. Highly skilled in deployment, data security and troubleshooting of the applications usingAWS services. Experienced in implementing Organization DevOps strategy in various operating environments of Linux and windows servers along with cloud strategies of Amazon Web Services. Worked on Multi-threading and thread pool design pattern. Worked on regenerated code, through Hibernate, and created services for existing modules and tested them through JUnit. Implemented business logic using Session Beans, Servlets and PL/SQL stored procedures Participate in technology/tools evaluation and software technical proof of concepts. Performed production support of the application in production. Developed and maintained ANT Scripts. Deployed the application on WebLogic and JBoss application servers. Involved in production support, monitoring server and error logs and Foreseeing the Potential Issues, and escalating to the higher levels. Environment: Java 1.8, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, NodeJS, jQuery, MySql, Angular 2/4, TypeScript, Bootstrap, Spring, AWS, Jasmine, Cucumber, Karma, grunt, Selenium, WebLogic 10.3, NPM, SAAS, Scala, Maven, RESTful, Eclipse, Cassandra, Oracle 10g, JIRA, JSON, GIT, Jenkins. Sr. Java/ J2EE developer Confidential, Pleasanton, CA Responsibilities: Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform. Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure using Springboot. Used AngularJS framework for the development of web application using Ajax, DHTML and DOM scripting. Responsible to enhance the Portal UI using HTML5, Java Script, XML, JSP, CSS3 as per the requirements and providing the client side using jQuery validations. Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate Springboot framework. Decompose existing monolithic code base into Spring Boot microservices. Created client library that provided load balanced and fault tolerant consumption of Spring Boot microservices from monolithic application. Used Jhipster to develop full stack application and microservices using angular and spring framework. Used Jhipster tools for automation and integrations. Used Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations. Responsible to write the different service classes and utility API, which will be used across the framework. Designed and developed Customer Event API with all the CRUD capabilities. Designed and developed RESTful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API. Designed, developed, tested, integrated, and deployed large numbers of complex rules in rule flows,Drools FusionandDrools CEP. Utilized Opta planner for constraint solving problems like planning hawk network lines, machine queue planning, workforce task planning and financial optimization like investment portfolio optimization, risk spreading. Installed and configuredJBOSS/Drools serverwith MySQL/Oracle persistence. Extracted rules data from the database and decision tables. Developed Web services component using XML, WSDL, and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications. Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL. Used SOAP UI for testing the Web services by sending a SOAP request. Used AJAX framework for server communication and seamless user experience. Created test framework on Selenium and executed Web testing in Chrome, IE and Mozilla through Web driver. Used client-side Java scripting: JQUERY for designing TABS and DIALOGBOX. Created UNIX shell scripts to automate the build process, to perform regular jobs like file transfers between different hosts. Developed Springboot, Cassandra, Elastic search and AWS S3 integration for the entire system. Created EC2 instances using cloud formation Templates on AWS. Used Cassandra as a persistent store and Apache Kafka as a messaging layer for custom framework and AWS as cloud platform leveraging its services and EC2 Infrastructure. Designed and implemented a stream filtering system on top of Apache Kafka to reduce stream size. Developed client application API’s using NodeJS. Used Require JS to improve speed and quality of the code. Used Jenkins as a CI/ CD tool and Intellij as an IDE. Worked on Message Oriented Middleware tools(MOM) like Active MQ and Rabbit MQ. Worked on CADevTest portal to virtualize software service behavior and model a virtual service to stand in for the actual service during development and testing. Used Log4j for the logging the output to the files. Used JUnit for the unit testing of various modules. Have written regression test cases for testing purpose and did automation on them. Environment: Agile scrum, Java 1.7, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Kafka, Mocha, MongoDB, Angular 2, TypeScript, Bootstrap, Spring, NodeJS, NPM, SAAS, AWS, Jasmine, Karma, grunt, Selenium, WebLogic 10.3, Maven, RESTful, Eclipse, Mockito, Cassandra, Cucumber, Oracle 10g, Atlassian JIRA, JSON, Scala, GIT, Jenkins, JUnit. Sr. Java developer Confidential, Columbus, OH Responsibilities: Design and developed the application using Spring Framework which is based on Model View Controller design pattern. Used Struts Validation to validate various form entities. User Tiles Framework to seamlessly integrate the controller layer with the UI layer. Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application. Used IntelliJ for developing the application with Spring JDBC, Spring Boot with Camel and JBOSS application server withDroolsfor deploying both web and business components in the UNIX OS with shell and bash scripting. Used both JBOSSDroolsand WebLogic application servers to integrate run time components and tools to develop applications. Used XPath, XQuery, XSL, and XSLT for UI development. Implement advanced java API and core java for coding sophisticated business logic. Designed and developed the Data access layer using Spring-Hibernate integration. Developed the service layer using the Spring IOC. Used Perl and shell scripting to automate the batch process and run SQL scripts. Developed Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party. Used SAX parser for parsing XML files. Develop integration techniques using the Apache camel and apache ActiveMQ technologies. Experience in Enterprise Integration Development using Apache Camel Framework Developed Mule ESB and Oracle OSB as a middleware services to enterprise environment. Implemented the logging framework in the SOA environment. Designing and developing Web application to generate reports usingJava-J2EEtechnologies. Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue, such as PDF, Excel report generation. Implemented the logging framework in the SOA environment. Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework and used Struts Test Cases for testing Action Classes. Used Maven as the build tool for the application. Developed Python scripts to automate the deployments to the WebSphere application server. Used Rational Clear Case and Clear Quest for version control and change management Environment: JDK 1.5,J2EE, STRUTS 1.2, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JSP1.2, SERVLETS2.1, JMS, XML, XSLT, SOAP, WSDL, SOA, JDBC, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, UML, PERL, HTML, JNDI, CVS, JUNIT, WEBSPHERE APPLICATION SERVER 7.0, RAD 7, RATIONAL ROSE, RATIONAL CLEARCASE, RATIONAL CLEAR QUEST, ORACLE 10G, Apache Camel. Java/J2EE Developer Confidential Responsibilities: Responsible for gathering business and functional requirements from the users Analyzed Use Case Diagrams and created various UML Diagrams such as class and sequence diagrams Followed Spring MVC framework to develop the application for the project Played key role in the design and development of application usingJ2EE, EAD, Log4J technologies/framework using SOA Used Spring Core for Dependency Injection/Inversion of control and usedDroolsrule engine for business logic and used Log4J for logging purposes. Leveraged the homegrown framework to handle exceptions Developed application using POJO on Eclipse IDE Implemented frontend components using Struts framework Wrote Action classes, Request Processor, Business Delegate, Business Objects, Service classes and JSP pages Utilized Struts Validator framework to validate the form data Designed the presentation tier components by customizing the Struts framework components such as configuring web modules, request processors and error handling components. Developed JSP pages using Struts custom tags Developed the components for parsing XML documents using SAX and DOM parsers Implemented design patterns such as DAO, Session Facade and Value Objects Implemented the Web Services functionality in the application to allow access by external applications to the data Utilized Apache Axis for the web service framework and created and deployed clients using SOAP and WSDL Developed and implemented several test cases using JUnit and performed load testing Used Hibernate as ORM tool and defined the mapping and relationship of each table in database Coordinated with QA team to ensure the quality of the application Deployed the application in IBM WebSphere Application Server 8.0 Environment: JAVA,J2EE1.5, ECLIPSE JUNO, EAD4J, HIBERNATE 4.2.1, ECLIPSE JUNO, APACHE AXIS 1.4, IBM RATIONAL SOFTWARE ARCHITECT 7.5, JSP, JNDI, STRUTS, LOG4J, JUNIT, IBM WEBSPHERE APPLICATION SERVER 8.5, SQUIRREL SQL CLIENT, XML, HTML, JAVASCRIPT AND DB2 9.7 