SUMMARY Around 5 years of experience in Analysis, Design and Testing of various kinds of java applications using Object Oriented Programming using J2SE(Core Java, JavaBeans, Collections), J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JDBC), Spring, Hibernate, XML, Web Services (SOAP, RESTful), Log4j, HTML, CSS, jQuery, AngularJS,NodeJS and JavaScript. Extensive experience in Open Source Java frameworks such as: Spring Dependency Injection, Inversion of Control, Aspect - Oriented Programming, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate. Expertise in developing data models using Hibernate Object relational mapping (ORM) frame work also used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at teh configuration level. Excellent noledge of design patterns (Singleton, Factory pattern, DAO, and Model View Controller) Excellent in front-end UI design implementations by writing HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript to make better Single Page Applications. Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries (jQuery) and developing Rich Internet Applications. Good Understanding of RDBMS through Database Design, writing queries and stored procedures using databases like Oracle, MySQL and SQL Server. Experience in Object Oriented analysis and design, UML (Use Cases, Sequence and Class diagrams) Rational rhapsody, and Rational Rose. Experience in deploying applications on application and web servers like IBM Web Sphere Application Server, JBoss, and Tomcat. Experience in working with RESTful Web Services and implementing RESTful API's. 1+ years of experience in Cloud computing infrastructure such as Amazon web Services (AWS). PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Full Stack Java Developer Confidential, Los Angeles, CA Responsibilities: Involved in all phases of SDLC implementation, including analysis, design, development, integration, and testing of application modules. Integrated Spring & Hibernate frameworks to develop end to end application. Actively participated in teh Analysis, Design, Development and Testing phases of various modules. Involved in design sessions during sprint design meetings to understand and come up with design solutions for teh user stories. Involved in development of RESTful Web Services with Jersey to create an end point which can handle requests based on teh client requirement. Designed and develop web based UI application using JSTL, Ajax, CSS, jQuery for teh presentation layer. Designed and developed Persistence layer components using Hibernate to retrieve teh data Implemented Service oriented architecture (SOA) using Restful web services. Worked on Docker engine and Docker Machine environments, to deploy teh micro services Continuous integration using Jenkins and monitoring using Splunk. Developed test cases for each component in different panels using Junit ensuring 80% code coverage. Conducted code reviews to ensure teh delivery of quality code . Wrote queries and procedures in HQL to fetch teh results from database (Functional,Regressional, Accelerated Environments) and deployed teh application on WebLogic application server. Created deliverable Installation, Configuration and Technical Design documents and stored them in our local portal for future purposes. Environment: Java 1.7, Spring MVC, Angular JS, Ajax, JQuery2.0, JavaScript, Servlet, JSP, Hibernate, REST Services, log4J, Maven4.0, JUnit, Eclipse, UNIX, Weblogic12c, SQL Server Full Stack Java Developer Confidential, Richardson, Tx Responsibilities: Implemented mouse tracking to identify remote logins and handle TeamViewer security vulnerability exposed around January 2016 Automated test cases using Jenkins, Selenium grid and Saucelabs Worked on Continuous Integration and deployment using Jenkins Helped reduce teh decline rate of PayPal transactions (~0.05%) by implementing keyboard and mouse tracking Implemented canvas fingerprinting and ETag based Supercookie (persistent cookie) to uniquely identify spoofing and bot based transactions, thereby mitigating risk Refactored existing monolithic application by identifying components dat needs to be transformed to microservices. Used Spring Validation framework to implement teh server side validations and usedAJAX to get teh data from teh server asynchronously by using JSON objects Wrote internal and external API services using Spring Boot Worked on Docker engine and Docker Machine environments, to deploy teh micro services Developed Docker images to support Development and Testing Teams and their pipelines Installed teh application on AWS EC2 instances and configured teh storage on S3 buckets Worked with NO SQl Databases(MongoDB) to access data in teh database at different Levels. Worked on persistent cookie and identifying teh following - remote desktop logins, keyboard bots, Scripts, OS/browser spoofing, multiple logins on single machine, velocity check Coordinated across multiple teams within IB2BS to enable backend to backend data pipe from Paypal to Confidential payment systems. Worked with Akamai team to setup rate limiting for teh above data pipe Worked on client side A/B testing to measure impact Environment: Java SDK 1.7, J2EE, JavaScript, Tomcat, Maven, Akamai CDN, Angular2, IBM decision engine, Jenkins, Selenium Grid, Saucelabs Java Developer Confidential  Responsibilities: Worked in Fast phase environment using Agile Methodology with short time deliverables. Involved in discussion for preparing teh Technical Specification Documents. Followed best Agile Practices like actively involved in Scrums. Involved in complete application design using J2EE architecture with Servlets, JSP and EJB in MVC architecture. Designed and developed XML, JSP, Servlets. Created dynamic web pages using JSP, static pages using HTML and developed business logic using EJB and Xml. Developed and implemented teh business logic component in middle tier using JDBC and EJB framework including stateless session classes and Entity bean classes. Used XHTML, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript framework for creating Dynamic Reach Design Layout with JSP. Involved in implementing changes to REST Web Services to invoke/retrieving providers' services for customers pricing discounts, surcharges, shipment data and billing. Developed JAVA design patterns like Singleton, Factory and Builder to solve various problems occurred in development phase. Worked with NO SQl Databases(MongoDB) to access data in teh database at different Levels. Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control. Worked on with continuous integration tool (Jenkins) in teh project. Involved in code review activities of teh team members. Responsible towards Testing teh software/application, Unit Testing of JUNIT and defects. Environment: Java/J2EE,DesignPatterns,Unix,EJB,Struts,XML,Restful,Servlets,JSP,Jboss,JDBC,HTML,CSS,JavaScript,JSP, Jboss. Programmer Analyst Confidential Responsibilities: Development of front end using HTML and JSP. Java Servlets were used as teh interface between teh client and teh server. Designed cascading style sheets and XML part of Order entry Module & Product Search Module and did client side validations with JavaScript. Developed components using Java multithreading concepts. JavaScript was used for teh client side validations. Handled business logic as a Model using teh helper classes and Servlets to control teh flow of application as controller. Written JSP's, Servlets for developing teh application and deployed teh application on Tomcat Server. Written JavaScript functions to do client side validation and AJAX functionality is used to get asynchronous data. Developed dis application based on Spring MVC Architecture. Designed and developed Customer registration and login screens using HTML, JSP, Servlets and JavaScript. Involved in Servlets, Java Bean programming on teh server side for teh communication between clients and server. Developed REST based webservices using JAX-RS API. Managed connectivity using JDBC for querying/inserting & data management including triggers and stored procedures. Tested and deployed teh application on Apache Tomcat. Involved in writing application business logic for different modules across teh application. Involved in writing unit testing for doing positive and negative test cases. Worked extensively with AJAX for bringing data from backend without reloading teh page. Involved in writing SQL statements. Environment: Java/J2EE,Multithreading,XML,XSLT,HTML,CSS,JavaScript,Ajax,Jquery,SpringMVC,SpringJDBC,SQl,SOAP. 