SUMMARY Over 5+ years of professional IT experience in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of a project which includes requirements gathering, analysis, Java and J2EE development, User - Interface design, maintenance, implementing enhancements and testing. Strong experience in OOPS and structured programming concepts, Programming in web technology using Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JavaScript, C, C++, Oracle and PDE Tools on UNIX (Solaris)/Linux and NT environments. Expertise on advanced technologies using EAI, EJB, JMS, Struts, spring, Hibernate, MVC architecture, XML and UML. Expertise in databases like Oracle and SQL Server. Creating various database Objects as well as writing Stored Procedures using TSQL and PL SQL. Excellent knowledge of J2EE architecture, Design patterns, UML, RUP Experience in the functional usage and deployment of applications in JBoss, Web Logic, Portlets, WebSphere and Apache Tomcat Server. Extensive experience in using Application servers Web Sphere Application Sever 7/6.x, WebLogic Application Server 8.1, JBoss 4.0, Apache Tomcat 4.x/5.x/6.x. Experienced with J2EE Design Patterns such as singleton, session facade, business delegate, DAO, DTO, MVC, and Factory. Strong knowledge in using JavaScript framework AngularJS. Extensive knowledge of Client - Server technology, web-based n-tier architecture, Database Design and development of applications using J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Session Facade, Factory Pattern and Business Delegate. Good knowledge of EJB Session beans with JNDI mapped naming & JMS message-driven beans. Have hands on experience in JSF framework. Strong process modelling using UML (Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, etc.) Experience in implementing and designing business applications. Strong Requirement Traceability Matrix mapping. Integrate the web services using Apache Camel routing. Worked on Agile methodology, SOA for many of the applications Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies. TECHNICAL SKILLS Programming Language:  Core Java APIs (me/O, Thread, Collection), C, C++, HTML, XML, XSLT, JSF, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, YUI, SQL, PL/SQL J2EE Technology:  Java Beans, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, JMS, RMI Architecture & Framework:  Client-Server, MVC, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, AngularJS Database:  Oracle 11g, SQL server 2008, MySQL Frameworks and Tools:  BEA WebLogic 8.1, JBOSS, IBM Websphere Application Server 6.1, Tomcat 6.0, JUnit 4.0, ANT, Log4j, Mercury Quality Centre, Rational Clear Quest. ANT, Maven, SVN, Toad Development Environment:  Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM RAD, JBuilder. Design Methodology:  UML, Perl, Agile Operating Systems:  Windows 9x/NT/XP/2003/VISTA/7/8, Linux, UNIX Conceptual knowledge:  Web Services, Socket Programming. Design patterns:  Business Delegate, Business Object, Value Object, Front Controller, Database Access Object, Factory, Singleton, and Session Façade Design & Control:  UML, Rational Rose, CVS, Clear Case PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Confidential, MD Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in design discussion and various business requirement calls to identify the requirements. Developed the Functional Requirement Document based on the Business Requirement Document. Designing the Technical detail document based on the Functional requirement document. Implemented HTTP REST API using Angular JS and express. Wrote build & deployment scripts using Maven on UNIX environment.Involved in Agile Methodology with sprint cycle. Worked on various design patterns specific to the requirement. Navigated and understood through the Workflow of the development. Developed the front end using Angular JS, HTML5, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, CSS3, JQuery and XML. Created custom directives and filters in Angular JS for re-usable components (multi-field form Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet. Developed and supported the Red Hat Enterprise Linux based infrastructure in the cloud environment. Experience in AWS, which included managing application in the cloud and creating instances. Planning, Design, Road maps, POC implementations for AWS Cloud technologies. Cloud first strategy. VPC design, Cloud formation scripts, AMI, Consolidated Billing for multiple AWSaccounts, Design Audit compliance through Trusted Advisor, design logging framework for cloud watch for all deployed apps. Created key pair and security group to launch an Amazon EC2 instance. Used the ec2-run-instance command to launch an instance into EC2-classic and EC2-vpc. Worked on building an AWS environment for JBoss Applications and configured JDBC connections, DataSources, Connection Pools, Virtual Hosts. Used Angular JS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server. Good experience with Spring MVC, Used Spring MVC to send the request from UI to Controllers. Used Spring IOC all through the application in the Business Layer. Used Spring 3 Annotations across the application.Used Hibernate in the DAO Layer.Performed unit testing using JUnit. Designed the real time analytics and ingestion platform using Storm and kafka. Developed different modules of the application using IBM RAD and Eclipse Kepler. Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database.Used Web Sphere 7.0 servers for everyday local deployments and test environments. Environment: Java1.8, AngularJS, WebSphere Application Server 7.0, DB2, Spring MVC, Spring Security 3.0.5, Hibernate 3.0, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML, CSS,Jasper Reports, Bootstrap, JMS, XML, REST, UNIX, Web Services, Ajax, JUnit, Maven, Log4J. Confidential, Oaks, PA Java Developer Responsibilities: Involved in the SDLC phases of the project to analyze the requirements, design, development and testing of the application based on Java/J2EE technologies and Design Patterns. Designed and developed Application based on Spring MVC Framework using MVC design pattern. Used Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC) and Hibernate Framework for Persistence onto Oracle Database. Developed dynamic web application using JSF and JSP technologies. Developed the application using Eclipse IDE. Involved in creating the Use cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented and maintainedGWTbased rich client for improved customer experience. Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS. Design and build UML models, NIEM conformant XML schemas and WSDL service contracts. Recommend SOA service artifacts implementation and life cycle management strategies, along with configuring and implementing UDDI registery. Build JAX-WS and JAX-RPC SOA service binding producers and client implementation from WSDL contracts. Build RESTful Web services using JAX-RS API Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database Used XML to transfer the application data between client and server. Deployed Cloudera Hadoop Cluster on AWS for Big Data Analytics. Installed Business Applications on AWS instances and configure S3 buckets. Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for Micro-services. Developed web services with SOAP. Consumed Web Services for transferring data between different applications. Used JAX-WS SOAP Web services to retrieve credit history of the applicants. Written and debugged the ANT Scripts for building the entire web application. Worked on JSTL, Custom Tags, and HTML/DHTML in JSP's. Deployed the application in various environments DEV, QA and also Production. Used the JDBC for data retrieval from the database for various inquiries. Created Application Property Files and implemented internationalization. Involved in complete development of ‘Agile Development Methodology’ and tested the application in each iteration. Used spring dependency injection to inject all the required dependency in application. Wrote complex PL/SQL and HQL queries to retrieve data from the Oracle database. E2E Development by integrating Front End and Backend by Debugging. Fixing System testing issues and UAT issues. Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring 2.0,JDBC 3.0, Web Services,GWT, XML, JNDI, Hibernate 3.0, JMS, Tomcat v6.0, Eclipse, Oracle 11g, SQL developer, HTML, Spring batch,Jasper Reports, Maven, Junit 4.0, JavaScript 1.2,JQUERY, XML/XSLT,SAX,DOM. Confidential JAVA/ J2EE Developer Responsibilities: Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Used Agile Methodology and participated in Scrum meetings. Developing UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose. Design and developing web application using Core Java and J2EE technologies. Resolving the halp desk tickets and providing On-call support (24x7) for different applications. Extensively using core JAVA concepts like Collections Framework, Multi-Threading, OO concepts, Exception handling for developing application modules. Used Oracle 10g as the backend database using UNIX OS. Involved in design of the database schema and development of Stored Procedures. Consumed web services from different applications within the network Developed Custom Tags to simplify the JSP2.0 code. Designed UI screens using JSF 2.0, CSS, XML1.1 and HTML. Used JavaScript for client side validation. Used GWT to send AJAX requests to the server and updating data in the UI dynamically. Developed Hibernate 3.0 in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database. Used Spring 2.5 Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and Struts frameworks. Configured Hibernates second level cache using EHCache to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data Used D3.js for interactive data visualization. Used Spring Web flow to manage complex page flows. Used MULE ESB frame work for exchange of important information such as loan status report. Designed and developed Utility Class that consumed the messages from the Java message Queue and generated emails to be sent to the customers. Used Java Mail API for sending emails. Coded Maven build scripts to build and deploy the application on WebSphere Worked on Using Log4J logging framework for logging messages, Testing and developing components using JUnit. Used CVS for version control and used IBM RAD 6.0 as the IDE for implementing the application. Supported Testing Teams and involved in defect meetings. Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts 2.0,JDBC 3.0, Web Services, XML, JNDI, Hibernate 3.0, JMS, Spring 3.X, JSF, Web logic Application Server 8.1, JQuery, Maven, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, WinCvs 1.2, HTML, Rational Rose XDE, Junit 4.0, Log4j, Dojo, Ajax, JavaScript 1.2, XML/XSLT,SAX,DOM. Confidential Java Developer Responsibilities: Coordinating with Project Manager and Business Analysts for getting the requirements and developing the code to support new applications. Providing Java programming support for existing and new applications. Developing Web applications using Java, J2EE, Struts and Hibernate. Developing Action Form classes, Form beans, and Action classes using struts. Using Hibernate for the backend persistence. Used spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and JSF. Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains object declarations and dependencies. Implementing MVC, DAO J2EE design patterns as a part of application development. Developing DAO interfaces for Hibernate to interact with databases. Designing the front end using JSP, Dojo, CSS and Html as per the requirements that are provided. Using JavaScript and Struts validation frame work for performing front end validations. Integrate the web services using Apache Camel routing with Apache ServiceMix. Coding and maintaining Oracle packages, stored procedures and tables. Participating in project design sessions to document technical specifications and to provide design options and solutions. Working on Web technologies including Tomcat, Apache, Http, Web service architectures. Migrating web application from Tomcat to web sphere deployment environments. Using SVN for software configuration management and version control. Preparing test cases and strategies for unit testing and integration testing. Using the LOG4j to log regular Debug and Exception statements. Environment: Java/J2EE, Struts, EJB, Web Logic Server, Oracle 9i, XML, HTML, Apache, JavaScript, Ant, PL/SQL, JSF, Junit. 